He that fears not the future may enjoy the present. Grief and constant anxiety kill nearly as many women as men die on the battlefield. To tremble before anticipated evils is to bemoan what thou hast never lost. He who foresees calamities suffers them twice over. He who fears he shall suffer already suffers what he fears. If you are afraid for your future, you don't have a present. Nothing in life is more remarkable than the unnecessary anxiety which we endure, and generally create ourselves. Do not think of all your anxieties, you will only make yourself ill. Only man clogs his happiness with care, destroying what is with thoughts of what may be. I care. I care a lot. I think of "Cosmopolitan" all day, and I run scared. So it's a combination of fright, caring, and anxiety. Cowards die many times before their deaths; the valiant never taste of death but once. Every man, through fear, mugs his aspirations a dozen times a day. The mind that is anxious about the future is miserable. I am not afraid of tomorrow, for I have seen yesterday and I love today. We are more disturbed by a calamity which threatens us than by one which has befallen us. We need not be afraid of the future, for the future will be in our own hands. It is never safe to look into the future with eyes of fear. He that fears not the future may enjoy the present. Grief and constant anxiety kill nearly as many women as men die on the battlefield. To tremble before anticipated evils is to bemoan what thou hast never lost. He who foresees calamities suffers them twice over. He who fears he shall suffer already suffers what he fears. If you are afraid for your future, you don't have a present. Nothing in life is more remarkable than the unnecessary anxiety which we endure, and generally create ourselves. Do not think of all your anxieties, you will only make yourself ill. Only man clogs his happiness with care, destroying what is with thoughts of what may be. I care. I care a lot. I think of "Cosmopolitan" all day, and I run scared. So it's a combination of fright, caring, and anxiety. Cowards die many times before their deaths; the valiant never taste of death but once. Every man, through fear, mugs his aspirations a dozen times a day. The mind that is anxious about the future is miserable. I am not afraid of tomorrow, for I have seen yesterday and I love today. We are more disturbed by a calamity which threatens us than by one which has befallen us. We need not be afraid of the future, for the future will be in our own hands. It is never safe to look into the future with eyes of fear. The future is called "perhaps," which is the only possible thing to call the future. And the important thing is not to allow that to scare you. Cowardiceis almost always simply a lack of ability to suspend the functioning of the imagination. Anxiety is a thin stream of fear trickling through the mind. If encouraged, it cuts a channel into which all other thoughts are drained. Most of the fear that spoils our life comes from attacking difficulties before we get to them. Fear is created not by the world around us, but in the mind, by what we think is going to happen. Proust has pointed out that the predisposition to love creates it's own objects: is this not also true of fear? Fear breeds fear. Fear to let fall a drop and you spill a lot. The truly fearless think of themselves as normal. Be not afraid of life. Believe that life is worth living, and your belief will help create the fact. We are terrified by the idea of being terrified. That fear of missing out on things makes you miss out on everything. He who fears being conquered is sure of defeat. What we fear comes to pass more speedily than what we hope. The greatest mistake you can make is to be continually fearing you will make one. The mere apprehension of a coming evil has put many into a situation of the utmost danger. The thing we fear we bring to pass. How often the fear of one evil leads into a worse. Fears are educated into us, and can, if we wish, be educated out. Love is what we are born with. Fear is what we learn. Human beings are born with just two basic fears. One is the fear of loud noises. The other is the fear of falling. All other fears must be learned. Needless fear and panic over disease or misfortune that seldom materialize are simply bad habits. By proper ventilation and illumination of the mind it is possible to cultivate tolerance, poise and real courage. Nothing in life is to be feared. It is only to be understood. We have to start teaching ourselves not to be afraid. Victory over fear is the first spiritual duty of man. I am not afraid of storms, for I am learning how to sail my ship. One of the marks of a gift is to have the courage of it. Part of being a champ is acting like a champ. You have to learn how to win and not run away when you lose. Everyone has bad stretches and real successes. Fear of success can also be tied into the idea that success means someone else's loss. Some people are unconsciously guilty because they believe their victories are coming at the expense of another. Most people are afraid of failing. I think there's nothing wrong in failing. True success is overcoming the fear of being unsuccessful. I'm afraid of being lazy and complacent. I'm afraid of taking myself too seriously. The sheer rebelliousness in giving ourselves permission to fail frees a childlike awareness and clarity.When we give ourselves permission to fail, we at the same time give ourselves permission to excel. He is much to be dreaded who stands in dread of poverty. I was nervous and confident at the same time, nervous about going out there in front of all of those people, with so much at stake, and confident that I was going to go out there and win. There are those who are so scrupulously afraid of doing wrong that they seldom venture to do anything. Real courage is when you know you're licked before you begin, but you begin anyway and see it through no matter what. To be ambitious for wealth, and yet always expecting to be poor, to be always doubting your ability to get what you long for, is like trying to reach east by traveling west.No matter how hard you work for success, if your thought is saturated with the fear of failure, it will kill your efforts, neutralize your endeavors and make success impossible. Studies by Medical Corps psychiatrists of combat fatigue casesfound that fear of killing, rather than fear of being killed, was the most common cause of battle failure, and that fear of failure ran a strong second. Half the things that people do not succeed in are through fear of making the attempt. A champion is afraid of losing. Everyone else is afraid of winning. We fear our highest possibility (as well as our lowest one). We are generally afraid to become that which we can glimpse in our most perfect moments. We fear the thing we want the most. We should not let our fears hold us back from pursuing our hopes. The ambitious climb high and perilous stairs, and never care how to come down; the desire of rising hath swallowed up their fear of a fall. It is not death that a man should fear, he should fear never beginning to live. Don't be afraid your life will end; be afraid it will never begin. Some people are so afraid to die that they never begin to live. Death is the last enemy: once we've got past that I think everything will be all right. The worst of all fears is the fear of living. Life is to life in such a way that we are not afraid to die. Those who fear life are already three parts dead. Fear not that thy life shall come to an end, but rather that it shall never have a beginning. People living deeply have no fear of death. Fear of death is worse than dying. The fear of life is the favorite disease of the twentieth century. Too many people are thinking of security instead of opportunity. They are more afraid of life than death. Death does not frighten me, but dying obscurely and above all uselessly does. Fear of life in one form or another is the great thing to exorcise. If we let things terrify us, life will not be worth living. A good life fears not life, nor death. He who fears death cannot enjoy life. Healthy children will not fear life if their elders have integrity enough not to fear death. To live your life in the fear of losing it is to lose the point of life. It is not death we fear, but the thought of it. It is not death or pain that is to be dreaded, but the fear of pain or death. Death is not the enemy, living in constant fear of it is. We must act in spite of fearnot because of it. I have accepted fear as a part of life-specifically the fear of change.I have gone ahead despite the pounding in the heart that says: turn back. Go forth to meet the shadowy Future without fear and with a manly heart. I may be compelled to face danger, but never fear it, and while our soldiers can stand and fight, I can stand and feed and nurse them. The fishermen know that the sea is dangerous and the storm terrible, but they have never found these dangers sufficient reason for remaining ashore. Fear is one thing. To let fear grab you and swing you around by the tail is another. I have not ceased being fearful, but I have ceased to let fear control me. When all else is lost, the future still remains. Tis the sunset of life gives me mystical lore, And coming events cast their shadows before. I never think of the future. It comes soon enough. I know of no way of judging the future but by the past. The present is great with the future Trust no Future, howe'er pleasant! Let the dead Past bury its dead! Go forth to meet the shadowy Future without fear and with a manly heart. Take therefore no thought for the morrow; for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. There was the Door to which I found no key; There was the Veil through which I might not see. There was a wise man in the East whose constant prayer was that he might see today with the eyes of tomorrow. I believe the future is only the past again, entered through another gate. Till the sun grows cold, And the stars are old, And the leaves of the Judgment Book unfold. All science is either Physics or stamp-collecting. As far as the laws of Mathematics refer to reality, they are not certain, and as far as they are certain, they do not refer to reality. He had read Shakespeare and found him weak in chemistry. I am sorry to say there is too much point to the wise crack that life is extinct on other planets because their scientists were more advanced than ours. If all the arts aspire to the condition of music, all the sciences aspire to the condition of mathematics. If the human race wants to go to Hell in a basket, technology can help it get there by jet. In science, all facts, no matter how trivial or banal, enjoy democratic equality. Life exists in the universe only because the carbon atom possesses certain exceptional properties. Light is the ultimate messenger of the universe. Most science is only high falutin' nature studies. My advice is to look out for engineers - they begin with sewing machines and end up with the atomic bomb. Never try to walk across a river just because it has an average depth of four feet. Reason, observation, and experience - the Holy Trinity of Science. Science is built of facts the way a house is built of bricks; but an accumulation of facts is no more science than a pile of bricks is a house. Science without religion is lame, religion without science is blind. Scientific discovery consists in the interpretation for our own convenience of a system of existence which has been made with no eye to our convenience at all. The means by which we live have outdistanced the ends for which we live. Our scientific power has outrun our spiritual power. We have guided missiles and misguided men. The scientific theory I like best is that the rings of Saturn are composed entirely of lost airline luggage. The simplest schoolboy is now familiar with truths for which Archimedes would have sacrificed his life. Wetenschap is wat wetenschappers doen - Science is what scientists do. Technology - the knack of so arranging the world that we don't have to experience it. The great tragedy of Science: the slaying of a beautiful hypothesis by an ugly fact. Technology means the systematic application of scientific or other organized knowledge to practical tasks. Whenever science makes a discovery, the devil grabs it while the angels are debating the best way to use it. Science cannot stop while ethics catches up - and nobody should expect scientists to do all the thinking for the country. Science must constantly be reminded that her purposes are not the only purposes and that the order of uniform causation which she has use for, and is therefore right in postulating, may be enveloped in a wider order, on which she has no claim at all. Science is the attempt to make the chaotic diversity of our sense-experience correspond to a logically uniform system of thought. Though many have tried, no one has ever yet explained away the decisive fact that science, which can do so much, cannot decide what it ought to do. It may be bizarre, but in my opinion, science offers a sure path to God and religion. As both the Mercury and Apollo programs have shown, our science and technology are so powerful that, if an intense effort is made, we can do almost anything we want in say, ten years - provided we are not in conflict with the laws of nature. The new electronic interdependence recreates the world in the image of a global village. Research is the process of going up alleys to see if they are blind. Research is to see what everybody has seen, and to think what nobody else has thought. No scientific theory achieves public acceptance until it has been thoroughly discredited. The first rule of intelligent tinkering is to save all the parts. Computers can figure out all kinds of problems, except the things in the world that just don't add up. The World would be a safer place, If someone had a plan, Before exploring Outer Space, To find the Inner Man. No amount of experimentation can ever prove me right; a single experiment can prove me wrong. I think and think for months and years. Ninety-nine times, the conclusion is false. The hundredth time I am right, There is more than a mere suspicion that the scientist who comes to ask metaphysical questions and turns away from metaphysical answers may be afraid of those answers. In science the credit goes to the man who convinces the world, not to the man to whom the idea first occurs. The perfect computer has been developed. You just feed in your problems, and they never come out again. Electric clocks reveal to you Precisely when your fuses blew. The telephone is the most important single technological resource of later life. Space isn't remote at all. It's only an hour's drive away if your car could go straight upwards. It is very seldom that the same man knows much of science, and about the things that were known before science came. A science which hesitates to forget its founders is lost. Pollution is nothing but resources we're not harvesting. Medieval Technology? The Middle Ages invented, among other things, the crank, the horse collar, eyeglasses, the flying buttress, the stirrup, the windmill, the wheelbarrow, printing, firearms, paper, the canal lock, the compass, the rudder, the mechanical clock, the spinning wheel, and the treadle. The best defence against the atom bomb is not to be there when it goes off. A few observations and much reasoning lead to error; many observations and a little reasoning to truth. The most important of my discoveries have been suggested to me by my failures. Basic research is when I'm doing what I don't know what I'm doing. Sit down before fact as a little child, be prepared to give up every preconceived notion, follow humbly wherever and to whatever abyss nature leads, or you shall learn nothing. If I have seen farther it is by standing on the shoulders of giants. It is the theory which decided what can be observed. Art is I; science is we. Every great advance in science has issued from a new audacity of imagination. Steam is no stronger now than it was a hundred years ago, but it is put to better use. Science and art belong to the whole world, and before them vanish the barriers of nationality. Science is simply common sense at its best - that is, rigidly accurate in observation, and merciless to fallacy in logic. Science is nothing but developed perception, interpreted intent, common sense rounded out, and minutely articulated. Science is the systematic classification of experience. Science is nothing but perception. Science is organized knowledge. Certainty generally is illusion and repose is not the destiny of man. How many roads must a man walk down Before you call him a man? Heaven is the place where the donkey finally catches up with his carrot: hell is the eternity while he waits for it. Continuous effort - not strength or intelligence - is the key to unlocking our potential. That that is is. Everything passes; everything wears out; everything breaks.(Tout passe, tout lasse, tout casse.) Whatso'er we perpetrate We do but row, we are steered by fate. Whatever limits us we call Fate. Whatever the universal nature assigns to any man at any time is for the good of that man at that time. Certain signs precede certain events. See how the Fates their gifts allot. For A is happy - B is not. Yet B is worthy, I dare say, Of more prosperity than A. Destiny, n: a tyrant's authority for crime and a fool's excuse for failure. Fate rules the affairs of mankind with no recognizable order. He who does not desire or fear the uncertain day or capricious fate, is equal to the gods above and loftier than mortals. The worst is not always certain but it's very likely. It is a long road from conception to completion. God keeps the wicked to give them time to repent. Fortune is fickle and soon asks back what he has given. Destiny is what you are supposed to do in life. Fate is what kicks you in the ass to make you do it. That which God writes on thy forehead, thou wilt come to it. When its time has come, the prey goes to the hunter. Upper classes are a nation's past; the middle-class is its future. People are afraid of the future, of the unknown. If a man faces up to it, and takes the dare of the future, he can have some control over his destiny. That's an exciting idea to me, better than waiting with everybody else to see what's going to happen. Tomorrow is the most important thing in life. Comes in to us at midnight very clean. It's perfect when it arrives and it puts itself in our hands and hopes we've learnt something from yesterday. Nothing in the world can one imagine beforehand, not the least thing. Everything is made up of so many unique particulars that cannot be foreseen. You can never plan the future by the past. One must care about a world one will not see. If you can look into the seeds of time and say, which grain will grow, and which will not, speak then to me. The future is something which every one reaches at the rate of sixty miles an hour, whatever he does, whoever he is. My interest is in the future because I am going to spend the rest of my life there. Tomorrow is a satire on today, And shows its weakness. The future comes one day at a time. Never let the future disturb you. You will meet it, if you have to, with the same weapons of reason which today arm you against the present. What we look for does not come to pass. God finds a way for what none foresaw. With high hope for the future, no prediction is ventured. We can pay our debt to the past by putting the future in debt to ourselves. The future is not a gift - it is an achievement. The world is full of people whose notion of a satisfactory future is, in fact, a return to the idealized past. That which is escaped now is pain to come. Light tomorrow with today! If tomorrow were never to come, it would not be worth living today. The afternoon knows what the morning never suspected. The future is purchased by the present. Life is an irreversible process and for that reason its future can never be a repetition of the past. I believe the future is only the past again, entered through another gate. The world will be saved by one or two people. It is a mistake to look too far ahead. Only one link in the chain of destiny can be handled at a time. It is seldom in life that one knows that a coming event is to be of crucial importance. Neither in the life of the individual nor in that of mankind is it desirable to know the future. There is only one large circle that we march in, around and around, each of us with our own little picture-in front of us-our own little mirage that we think is the future. God made the world round so we would never be able to see too far down the road. The future comes one day at a time. There is a case, and a strong case, for that particular form of indolence that allows us to move through life knowing only what immediately concerns us. Cease to inquire what the future has in store, and take as a gift whatever the day brings forth. There is no data on the future. The best thing about the future is that it comes only one day at a time. Hardly anyone knows how much is gained by ignoring the future. The future is hidden even from those who make it. They who lose today may win tomorrow. Be of good cheer. Do not think of today's failures, but of the success that may come tomorrow. You have set yourselves a difficult task, but you will succeed if you persevere; and you will find a joy in overcoming obstacles. Remember, no effort that we make to attain something beautiful is ever lost. When all else is lost, the future still remains. There is hope for all of us. Well, anyway, if you don't die you live through it, day in, day out. Our faith in the present dies out long before our faith in the future. I have been nothingbut there is tomorrow. After all, tomorrow is another day. Everyone has it within his power to say, this I am today, that I shall be tomorrow. He who foresees calamities suffers them twice over. Only man clogs his happiness with care, destroying what is with thoughts of what may be. It is never safe to look into the future with eyes of fear. If you are afraid for your future, you don't have a present. He that fears not the future may enjoy the present. Cowards die many times before their deaths; the valiant never taste of death but once. The future is called "perhaps," which is the only possible thing to call the future. And the important thing is not to allow that to scare you. To relinquish a present good through apprehension of a future evil is in most instances unwisefrom a fear which may afterwards turn out groundless, you lost the good that lay within your grasp. Nothing in life is more remarkable than the unnecessary anxiety which we endure, and generally create ourselves. Every man, through fear, mugs his aspirations a dozen times a day. The mere apprehension of a coming evil has put many into a situation of the utmost danger. We need not be afraid of the future, for the future will be in our own hands. I am not afraid of tomorrow, for I have seen yesterday and I love today. Go forth to meet the shadowy Future without fear and with a manly heart. We grow in time to trust the future for our answers. Every tomorrow has two handles. We can take hold of it with the handle of anxiety or the handle of faith. Put aside the need to know some future design and simply leave your life open to what is needed of it by the Divine forces. See how time makes all grief decay. The only limit to our realization of tomorrow will be our doubts of today. Let us move forward with strong and active faith. It is not the cares of today, but the cares of tomorrow, that weigh a man down. For the needs of today we have corresponding strength given. For the morrow we are told to trust. It is not ours yet. Take therefore no thought of the morrow; for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Tomorrow is the day when idlers work, and fools reform, and mortal men lay hold on heaven. Tomorrow is the mysterious, unknown guest. Tomorrow is the only day in the year that appeals to a lazy man. The future is something which everyone reaches at the rate of sixty minutes an hour, whatever he does, whoever he is. The future is a world limited by ourselves-in it we discover only what concerns us. The future is only the past again, entered through another gate. The future is the most expensive luxury in the world. The future is the shape of things to come. The future is the past in preparation. To the being of fully alive, the future is not ominous but a promise; it surrounds the present like a halo. The future is hope! The future is a great land. The future is wider than vision, and has no end. Losing the future is the best thing that ever happened to me. Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be. I have always been driven by some distant music-a battle hymn no doubt-for I have been at war from the beginning. I've never looked back before. I've never had the time and it has always seemed so dangerous. He who lives in the future lives in a featureless blank; he lives in impersonality; he lives in Nirvana. The past is democratic, because it is a people. The future is despotic, because it is a caprice. Every man is alone in his prediction, just as each man is alone in a dream. The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams. When I look to the future, it's so bright, it burns my eyes. I like the dreams of the future better than the history of the past. I never think of the future. It comes soon enough. You cannot plan the future by the past. It is when tomorrow's burden is added to the burden of today that the weight is more than a man can bear. My interest is in the future because I am going to spend the rest of my life there. Yesterday is not ours to recover, but tomorrow is ours to win or lose. The possibilities for tomorrow are usually beyond our expectations. Where will I be five years from now? I delight in not knowing. That's one of the greatest things about life-its wonderful surprises. When I look at the future, it's so bright, it burns my eyes. Everyone's future is, in reality, uncertain and full of unknown treasures from which all may draw unguessed prizes. The future is made of the same stuff as the present. The future is much like the present, only longer. By-and-by never comes. The bridges you cross before you come to them are over rivers that aren't there. Strike when thou wilt, the hour of rest, but let my last days be my best. For you and me, today is all we have; tomorrow is a mirage that may never become reality. I fear there will be no future for those who do not change. If a man carefully examines his thoughts he will be surprised to find how much he lives in the future. His well-being is always ahead. I got the blues thinking of the future, so I left off and made some marmalade. It's amazing how it cheers one up to shred oranges and scrub the floor. You learn to build your roads on today, because tomorrow's ground is too uncertain for plans, and futures have a way of falling down in mid-flight. Fortunately for children, the uncertainties of the present always give way to the enchanted possibilities of the future. There is a budding tomorrow in midnight. Never leave that till tomorrow which you can do today. Tomorrow! - Why, tomorrow I may be Myself with yesterday's sev'n thousand years. Tomorrow never yet On any human being rose or set. Boast not thyself of tomorrow; for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Many a man's tongue shakes out his master's undoing. The tongue can no man tame; it is an unruly evil. It is always in season for old men to learn. Youth is a blunder; Manhood a struggle; Old Age a regret. To know how to grow old is the master work of wisdom, and one of the most difficult chapters in the great art of living. Old wood best to burn, old wine to drink, old friends to trust, and old authors to read. At 20 years of age the will reigns, at 30 the wit; at 40 the judgment. If wrinkles must be written upon our brows, let them not be written upon the heart. The spirit should not grow old. The riders in a race do not stop short when they reach the goal. There is a little finishing canter before coming to a standstill. There is time to hear the kind voice of friends and to say to one's self: "The work is done." Study until twenty-five, investigation until forty, profession until sixty, at which age I would have him retired on a double allowance. In youth the days are short and the years are long; in old age the years are short and the days long. The days of our years are threescore years and ten; and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength labour and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away. The first forty years of life give us the text; the next thirty supply the commentary on it. Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale Her infinite variety. An old man is twice a child. The old believe everything: the middle-aged suspect everything: the young know everything. Civilization is nothing more than the effort to reduce the use of force to the last resort. Each new generation is a fresh invasion of savages. Respectability is the dickey on the bosom of civilization. The human race has improved everything except the human race. A civilized society is one that exhibits the five qualities of truth, beauty, adventure, art and peace. There is such a thing as too much couth. We are in the first age since the dawn of civilization in which people have dared to think it practicable to make the benefits of civilization available to the whole human race. The human landscape of the New World shows a conquest of nature by an intelligence that does not love it. Let us humour if we can The vertical man Though we value none But the horizontal one. Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic. Our lifetime may be the last that will be lived out in a technological society. To be able to fill leisure intelligently is the last product of civilization. So I should say that civilizations begin with religion and stoicism: they end with scepticism and unbelief, and the undisciplined pursuit of individual pleasure. A civilization is born stoic and dies epicurean. We are all afraid - for our confidence, for the future, for the world. That is the nature of the human imagination. Yet every man, every civilization, has gone forward because of its engagement with what it has set itself to do. The personal commitment and the emotional commitment working together as one, has made the Ascent of Man. Civilization is just a slow process of learning to be kind. Civilization is a movement - not a condition; a voyage - not a harbour. Since barbarism has its pleasures it naturally has its apologists. We sit by and watch the barbarian. We tolerate him in the long stretches of peace, we are not afraid. We are tickled by his irreverence; his comic inversion of our old certitudes and our fixed creed refreshes us; we laugh. But as we laugh we are watched by large and awful faces from beyond, and on these faces there are no smiles. A race preserves its vigour so long as it harbours a real contrast between what has been and what may be, and so long as it is nerved by the vigour to adventure beyond the safeties of the past. Without adventure, civilization is in full decay. Civilizations die from philosophical calm, irony, and the sense of fair play quite as surely as they die of debauchery. The three great elements of modern civilization, Gunpowder, Printing, and the Protestant Religion. A savage is simply a human organism that has not received enough news from the human race. This is the way the world ends Not with a bang but a whimper. A tablecloth restaurant is still one of the great rewards of civilization. The end of the human race will be that it will eventually die of civilization. If you would civilize a man, begin with his grandmother. To be a man is to feel that one's own stone contributes to building the edifice of the world. A sufficient measure of civilization is the influence of good women. We think our civilization near its meridian, but we are yet only at the cock-crowing and the morning star. The path of civilization is paved with tin cans. Nations, like individuals, live and die; but civilization cannot die. Civilization is a movement and not a condition, a voyage and not a harbor. The paths of glory lead but to the grave. Mine eyes have seen the coming of the glory of the Lord. O how quickly passes away the glory of the earth. One crowded hour of glorious life Is worth an age without a name. God helps those who help themselves. Man proposes, and God disposes. God's in His Heaven - All's right with the world! Fear that man who fears not God. Nearer, my God, to Thee - Nearer to Thee - E'en though it be a cross That raiseth me; Still all my song shall be Nearer, my God, to Thee, Nearer to Thee! I took a day to search for God, And found Him not. But as I trod By rocky ledge, through woods untamed, Just where one scarlet lily flamed, I saw His foot print in the sod. A picket frozen on duty - A mother starved for her brood - Socrates drinking the hemlock, And Jesus on the rood; And millions who, humble and nameless, The straight, hard pathway trod - Some call it Consecration, And others call it God. God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things that are mighty. God moves in a mysterious way His wonders to perform; He plants his footsteps in the sea And rides upon the storm. God is incorporeal, divine, supreme, infinite Mind, Spirit, Soul, Principle, life, Truth, Love. An honest God is the noblest work of man. "We trust, Sir, that God is on our side." "It is more important to know that we are on God's side." A mighty fortress is our God, A bulwark never failing, Our helper he amid the flood Of mortal ills prevailing. Everyone is in a small way the image of God. What is it: is man only a blunder of God, or God only a blunder of man? A God-intoxicated man. He mounts the storm, and walks upon the wind. The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament showeth his handiwork. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures; he leadeth me beside the still warm waters. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. There is no respect of persons with God. If God be for us, who can be against us? The divine essence itself is love and wisdom. God, the Great Giver, can open the whole universe to our gaze in the narrow space of a single lane. Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me hide myself in thee. God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb. If there were no God, it would be necessary to invent him. History is something that never happened, written by a man who wasn't there. History, a distillation of rumor The economic interpretation of history does not necessarily mean that all events are determined solely by economic forces. It simply means that economic facts are the ever recurring decisive forces, the chief points in the process of history. Assassination has never changed the history of the world. There is properly no history, only biography. History is indeed little more than the register of the crimes, follies, and misfortunes of mankind. What is history but a fable agreed upon? The historian is a prophet looking backwards. All history is a lie! Human history is in essence a history of ideas. I am mortal, born to love and to suffer. I am a man; nothing human is alien to me. Few men are of one plain, decided colour, most are mixed, shaded, and blended; and vary as much, from different situations as changeable silks do from different lights. I often marvel how it is that though each man loves himself beyond all else, he should yet value his own opinion of himself less than that of others. It is more comfortable to feel that we are a slight improvement on a monkey than such a fallin' off fr'm th' angels. It is when we try to grapple with another man's intimate need that we perceive how incomprehensible, wavering and misty are the beings that share with us the sight of the stars and the warmth of the sun. Man is at the bottom an animal, midway, a citizen, and at the top, divine. But the climate of this world is such that few ripen at the top. Man is physically as well as metaphysically a thing of shreds and patches, borrowed unequally from good and bad ancestors, and a misfit from the start. Man is the only creature that consumes without producing. Man partly is and wholly hopes to be. Man, as we know him, is a poor creature; but he is halfway between an ape and a god and he is travelling in the right direction. Mankind is an unco squad And muckle he may grieve thee. Many people believe they are attracted by God, or by Nature when they are only repelled by Man. Most human beings have an absolute and infinite capacity for taking things for granted. The cultivated man, wise to know and bold to perform, is the end to which nature works. The middle class prefers comfort to pleasure, convenience to liberty, and a pleasant temperature to the deathly inner consuming fire. The question is this: Is man an ape or an angel? I, my lords, am on the side of the angels. There are 193 living species of monkeys and apes. 192 of them are covered with hair. The exception is a naked ape, self-named Homo Sapiens. We fancy men are individuals; so are pumpkins; but every pumpkin in the field goes through every point of pumpkin history. We should expect the best and the worst from mankind, as from the weather. Whosoever would be a man must be a non-conformist. Every man is to be respected as an absolute end in himself: and it is a crime against the dignity that belongs to him as a human being, to use him as a mere means for some external purpose. The race of man, while sheep in credulity, are wolves for conformity. Men are cruel, but man is kind. In this world, a man must either be anvil or hammer. I believe I've found the missing link between animal and civilized man. It is us. A human being isn't an orchid, he must draw something from the soil he grows in. He was a man, take him for all in all, I shall not look upon his like again. I am a member of the rabble in good standing. The strongest human instinct is to impart information, the second strongest is to resist it. Who is wise? He that learns from everyone. Who is powerful? He that governs his passions. Who is rich? He that is content. Who is that? Nobody. God made him, and therefore let him pass for a man. Darwinian Man, though well-behaved, At best is only a monkey shaved! Each man is his own absolute lawgiver and dispenser of glory or gloom to himself, the maker of his life, his reward, his punishment. Man is the only animal whose desires increase as they are fed; the only animal that is never satisfied. Most people in action are not worth very much; and yet every human being is an unprecedented miracle. People are too durable, that's their main trouble. They can do too much to themselves, they last too long. I believe that man will not merely endure: he will prevail. He is immortal, not because he alone among creatures has an inexhaustible voice, but because he has a soul, a spirit capable of compassion and sacrifice and endurance. A man is a kind of inverted thermometer, the bulb uppermost, and the column of self-valuation is all the time going up and down. To be reborn is a constantly recurring human need. Man's most valuable trait Is a judicious sense of what not to believe. The natural man has only two primal passions: to get and to beget. A humanist is anyone who rejects the attempt to describe or account for man wholly on the basis of physics, chemistry or animal behaviour. Man is a wanting animal - as soon as one of his needs is satisfied, another appears in its place. This process is unending. It continues from birth to death. The forgotten man. He is the clean, quiet, virtuous domestic citizen who pays his debts and his taxes and is never heard of outside his little circle.He works, he votes, generally he prays, but his chief business in life is to pay. Limited in his nature, infinite in his desires, man is a fallen god who remembers heaven. Man is a make-believe animal - he is never so truly himself as when he is acting a part. Men must endure their going hence, even as their coming hither; ripeness is all. Every man in the world is better than someolne else and not as good as someone else. The voice is a second signature. It would hardly be possible to exaggerate man's wretchedness if it were not so easy to overestimate his sensibility. Know then thyself, presume not God to scan: The proper study of mankind is man. Man, an animal that makes bargains. Man is a reasoning, rather than a reasonable animal. Man will ever stand in need of man. We are members one of another. t Man is only a reed, the weakest thing in nature, but he is a thinking reed. Man is the only animal that laughs and weeps; for he is the only animal that is struck by the difference between what things are and what they might have been. To her fair works did Nature link The human soul that through me ran; And much it grieved my heart to think What Man has made of Man. Admire, exult, despise, laugh, weep - for here There is such matter for all feelings: - Man! Thou pendulum betwixt a smile and tear. The dignity of man lies in his ability to face reality in all its meaningless-ness. If heaven made him, earth can find some use for him. Everything in space obeys the laws of physics. If you know these laws, and obey them, space will treat you kindly. And don't tell me man doesn't belong out there. Man belongs wherever he wants to go - and he'll do plenty well when he gets there. An unlearned carpenter of my acquaintance once said in my hearing: 'There is very little difference between one man and another, but what there is is very important.' One of the laws of paleontology is that an animal which must protect itself with thick armour is degenerate. It is usually a sign that the species is on the road to extinction. The Family of Man is more than three billion strong. It lives in more than one hundred nations. Most of its members are not white. Most of them are not Christians. Most of them know nothing about free enterprise, or due process of law, or the Australian ballot. Man is as full of potentiality as he is of impotence. That man is an aggressive creature will hardly be disputed. With the exception of certain rodents, no other vertebrate habitually destroys members of its own species. Every man is more than just himself; he also represents the unique, the very special and always significant and remarkable point at which the world's phenomena intersect, only once in this way, and never again. Man is a gaming animal. He must be always trying to get the better in something or other. Man makes holy what he believes, as he makes beautiful what he loves. Man is an abyss, and I turn giddy when I look down into it. There is a secret person undamaged in every individual. We are governed not by armies and police but by ideas. For seasons and seasons and seasons all our movement has been going against our self, a journey into our killer's desire. Logic is logic. That's all I say. Logic is neither a science nor an art, but a dodge. Grammar is the logic of speech, even as logic is the grammar of reason. A tool is but the extension of a man's hand, and a machine is but a complex tool. He that invents a machine augments the power of a man and the well being of mankind. Man is a tool-using animal. One machine can do the work of fifty ordinary men. No machine can do the work of one extraordinary man. Men have become the tools of their tools. I shall always consider the best guesser the best prophet. A prophet is not without honour, save in his own country, and in his own house. I shall always consider the best guesser the best prophet. A prophet is not without honour, save in his own country, and in his own house. He that will not apply new remedies must expect new evils, for time is the greatest innovator. If it is to be, It is up to me. All that is human must retrograde if it does not advance. Ambition can creep as well as soar. New roads; new ruts. Progress, far from consisting in change, depends on retentiveness. Those who cannot remember the past are content to repeat it. The new electronic interdependence recreates the world in the image of a global village. All progress is based upon the universal innate desire on the part of every organism to live beyond its income. This world of ours is a new world, in which the unit of knowledge, the nature of human communities, the order of society, the order of ideas, the very notions of society and culture have changed, and will not return to what they have been in the past. What is new is new, not because it has never been there before, but because it has changed in quality. And from the discontent of man The world's best progress springs. Every gain made by individuals or society is almost instantly taken for granted. Do not seek to follow in the footsteps of the men of old; seek what they sought. Once you sink that first stake, they'll never make you pull it up. Flight is the only true sensation that men have achieved in modern history. The fundamental magic of flying is a miracle that has nothing to do with any of its practical purposes - purposes of speed, accessibility and convenience - and will not change as they change. The really great visual experience today is to fly over a huge city and look down into the night. It's like a tremendous jubilant Christmas tree. You just feel life is worth living - when you come down you may have some doubts. A great devotee of the gospel of getting on. The century on which we are entering can be and must be the century of the common man. To spur a willing horse. Removing the faults in a stage-coach may produce a perfect stage-coach, but it is unlikely to produce the first motor car. Progress might have been all right once, but it's gone on too long. Is it progress if a cannibal uses knife and fork? A thousand things advance; nine hundred and ninety-nine retreat; that is progress. The simple faith in progress is not a conviction belonging to strength, but one belonging to acquiescence and hence to weakness. The major advances in civilization are processes which all but wreck the societies in which they occur. Behold the turtle. He makes progress only when he sticks his neck out. Always remember that the soundest way to progress in any organization is to help the man ahead of you to get promoted. What saves a man is to take a step. Then another step. It is always the same step, but you have to take it. Daring ideas are like chessmen moved forward. They may be beaten, but they may start a winning game. The rule is jam tomorrow and jam yesterday - but never jam today. The art of progress is to preserve order amid change, and to preserve change amid order. Now here, you see, it takes all the running you can do to keep in the same place. If you want to get somewhere else, you must run at least twice as fast as that! It so happens that the world is undergoing a transformation to which no change that has yet occurred can be compared, either in scope or in rapidity. Modern kitchen - where the pot calls the kettle chartreuse. If Jesus Christ were to come today, people would not even crucify him. They would ask him to dinner, and hear what he had to say, and make fun of him. Man is flying too fast for a world that is round. Soon he will catch up with himself in a great rear-end collision and Man will never know that what hit him from behind was Man. Every step of progress the world has made has been from scaffold to scaffold, and from stake to stake. Today every invention is received with a cry of triumph which soon turns into a cry of fear. Once a man would spend a week patiently waiting if he missed a stage coach, but now he rages if he misses the first section of a revolving door. The reasonable man adapts himself to the world; the unreasonable one persists in trying to adapt the world to himself. Therefore all progress depends upon the unreasonable man. There is no royal road to anything. One thing at a time, and all things in succession. That which grows slowly endures. Growth for the sake of growth is the ideology of the cancer cell. The world owes all its onward impulses to men ill at ease. The happy man inevitably confines himself within ancient limits. That which comes into the world to disturb nothing deserves neither respect nor patience. Occasionally we sigh for an earlier day when we could just look at the stars without worrying whether they were theirs or ours. Every year it takes less time to fly across the Atlantic, and more time to drive to the office. What we call progress is the exchange of one Nuisance for another Nuisance. Every step of progress which the world has made has been from scaffold to scaffold, and from stake to stake. So long as all the increased wealth which modern progress brings, goes but to build up great fortunes, to increase luxury, and make sharper the contest between the House of Have and the House of Want, progress is not real and cannot be permanent. Progress - the stride of God! If you strike a thorn or rose, Keep a-goin! If it hails or if it snows, Keep a-goin! 'Tain't no use to sit and whine 'Cause the fish ain't on your line; Bait your hook an' keep on tryin'. Keep a-goin! Don't worry about what anybody else is going to do. The best way to predict the future is to invent it. Premature optimization is the root of all evil (or at least most of it) in programming. Lisp has jokingly been called "the most intelligent way to misuse a computer". I think that description is a great compliment because it transmits the full flavor of liberation: it has assisted a number of our most gifted fellow humans in thinking previously impossible thoughts. Keep away from people who try to belittle your ambitions. Small people always do that, but the really great make you feel that you, too, can become great. What Paul does, and does very well, is to take ideas and concepts that are beautiful in the abstract, and brings them down to a real world level. That's a rare talent to find in writing these days. Since programmers create programs out of nothing, imagination is our only limitation. Thus, in the world of programming, the hero is the one who has great vision. Paul Graham is one of our contemporary heroes. He has the ability to embrace the vision, and to express it plainly. His works are my favorites, especially the ones describing language design. He explains secrets of programming, languages, and human nature that can only be learned from the hacker experience. This book shows you his great vision, and tells you the truth about the nature of hacking. No problem should ever have to be solved twice. How to become a hacker Attitude is no substitute for competence. It is said that the real winner is the one who lives in today but able to see tomorrow. Reviewing The future of ideas. Fools ignore complexity. Pragmatists suffer it. Some can avoid it. Geniuses remove it. A year spent in artificial intelligence is enough to make one believe in God. Dealing with failure is easy: Work hard to improve. Success is also easy to handle: You've solved the wrong problem. Work hard to improve. Within a computer natural language is unnatural. You think you know when you learn, are more sure when you can write, even more when you can teach, but certain when you can program. Adapting old programs to fit new machines usually means adapting new machines to behave like old ones. A little learning is a dangerous thing. Computer science education cannot make anybody an expert programmer any more than studying brushes and pigment can make somebody an expert painter. Einstein argued that there must be simplified explanations of nature, because God is not capricious or arbitrary. Students should be evaluated on how well they can achieve the goals they strived to achieve within a realistic context. Students need to learn to do things, not know things. We remember what we learn when we care about performing better and when we believe that what we have been asked to do is representative of reality. There really is no learning without doing. We really have to get over the idea that some stuff is just worth knowing even if you never do anything with it. Human memories happily erase stuff that has no purpose, so why try to fill up children's heads with such stuff? The only problems we can really solve in a satisfactory manner are those that finally admit a nicely factored solution. The best way to learn to live with our limitations is to know them. This challenge, viz. the confrontation with the programming task, is so unique that this novel experience can teach us a lot about ourselves. Itshould deepen our understanding of the processes of design and creation, it should give us better control over the task of organizing our thoughts. If it did not do so, to my taste we should no deserve the computer at all! It has allready taught us a few lessons, and the one I have chosen to stress in this talk is the following. We shall do a much better programming job, provided that we approach the task with a full appreciation of its tremenduous difficulty, provided that we stick to modest and elegant programming languages, provided that we respect the intrinsec limitations of the human mind and approach the task as Very Humble Programmers. The humble programmer.We now come to the decisive step of mathematical abstraction: we forget about what the symbols stand for. The mathematician need not be idle; there are many operations which he may carry out with these symbols, without ever having to look at the things they stand for. The Mathematical Way of Thinking. An expert is, according to my working definition "someone who doesn't need to look up answers to easy questions". The programmer must seek both perfection of part and adequacy of collection. Thus, programs must be written for people to read, and only incidentally for machines to execute. We control complexity by building abstractions that hide details when appropriate. We control complexity by establishing conventional interfaces that enable us to construct systems by combining standard, well-understood pieces in a ``mix and match'' way. We control complexity by establishing new languages for describing a design, each of which emphasizes particular aspects of the design and deemphasizes others. The acts of the mind, wherein it exerts its power over simple ideas, are chiefly these three: Combining several simple ideas into one compound one, and thus all complex ideas are made. The second is bringing two ideas, whether simple or complex, together, and setting them by one another so as to take a view of them at once, without uniting them into one, by which it gets all its ideas of relations. The third is separating them from all other ideas that accompany them in their real existence: this is called abstraction, and thus all its general ideas are made. An Essay Concerning Human Understanding. Lisp programmers know the value of everything but the cost of nothing. An interpreter raises the machine to the level of the user program; a compiler lowers the user program to the level of the machine language. Everything should be made as simple as possible, but no simpler. The great dividing line between success and failure can be expressed in five words: "I did not have time." 03 When your enemy is making a very serious mistake, don't be impolite and disturb him. A charlatan makes obscure what is clear; a thinker makes clear what is obscure. There are two ways of constructing a software design; one way is to make it so simple that there are obviously no deficiencies, and the other way is to make it so complicated that there are no obvious deficiencies. The first method is far more difficult. And if you go too far up, abstraction-wise, you run out of oxygen. Sometimes smart thinkers just don't know when to stop, and they create these absurd, all-encompassing, high-level pictures of the universe that are all good and fine, but don't actually mean anything at all. The three chief virtues of a programmer are: Laziness, Impatience andHubris. All non-trivial abstractions, to some degree, are leaky. XML wasn't designed to be edited by humans on a regular basis. Premature abstraction is an equally grevious sin as premature optimization. You can have premature generalization as well as premature optimization. He causes his sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. A language that doesn't affect the way you think about programming, is not worth knowing. Men never do evil so completely and cheerfully as when they do it from religious conviction. Everybody makes their own fun. If you don't make it yourself, it ain't fun, it's entertainment. If we wish to count lines of code, we should not regard them as *lines produced* but as *lines spent*. Sometimes a man with too broad a perspective reveals himself as having no real perspective at all. A man who tries too hard to see every side may be a man who is trying to avoid choosing any side. A man who tries too hard to seek a deeper truth may be trying to hide from the truth he already knows. That is not a sign of intellectual sophistication and "great thinking". It is a demonstration of moral degeneracy and cowardice. Omit needless words. I have never met a man so ignorant that I couldn't learn something from him. A society that puts equality -- in the sense of equality of outcome -- ahead of freedom will end up with neither equality nor freedom. The use of force to achieve equality will destroy freedom, and the force, introduced for good purposes, will end up in the hands of people who use it to promote their own interests. Philosophy: the finding of bad reasons for what one believes by instinct. Of all tyrannies a tyranny sincerely exercised for the good of its victims may be the most oppressive. It may be better to live under robber barons than under omnipotent moral busybodies, The robber baron's cruelty may sometimes sleep, his cupidity may at some point be satiated; but those who torment us for own good will torment us without end, for they do so with the approval of their own conscience. Fools! Don't they know that tears are a woman's most effective weapon? It's like a condom; I'd rather have it and not need it than need it and not have it. C++ is history repeated as tragedy. Java is history repeated as farce. Simplicity takes effort-- genius, even. Show, don't tell. In God I trust; I will not be afraid. What can mortal man do to me? Linux is only free if your time has no value. Code is poetry. If you choose not to decide, you still have made a choice. Civilization advances by extending the number of important operations which we can perform without thinking about them. The function of wisdom is to discriminate between good and evil. The reason to do animation is caricature. Good caricature picks out the essense of the statement and removes everything else. It's not simply about reproducing reality; It's about bumping it up. Mistakes were made. I would rather be an optimist and be wrong than a pessimist who proves to be right. The former sometimes wins, but never the latter. What is truth? Life moves pretty fast. If you don't stop and look around once in a while, you could miss it. Lisp is worth learning for the profound enlightenment experience you will have when you finally get it; that experience will make you a better programmer for the rest of your days, even if you never actually use Lisp itself a lot. Any sufficiently complicated C or Fortran program contains an ad hoc, informally specified, bug-ridden, slow implementation of half of Common I was talking recently to a friend who teaches at MIT. His field is hot now and every year he is inundated by applications from would-be graduate students. "A lot of them seem smart," he said. "What I can't tell is whether they have any kind of taste." The direct pursuit of happiness is a recipe for an unhappy life. It's no trick for talented people to be interesting, but it's a gift to be interested. We want an organization filled with interested people. Why teach drawing to accountants? Because drawing class doesn't just teach people to draw. It teaches them to be more observant. There's no company on earth that wouldn't benefit from having people become more observant. All problems in computer science can be solved by another level of indirection. A designer knows he has arrived at perfection not when there is no longuer anything to add, but when there is no longuer anything to take away. For the things we have to learn before we can do them, we learn by doing them. There are many ways to avoid success in life, but the most sure-fire just might be procrastination. PI seconds is a nanocentury. A non negative binary integer value x is a power of 2 iff (x & (x-1)) is 0 using 2's complement arithmetic. While Ive always appreciated beautiful code, I share Jonathans concern about studying it too much. I think studying beauty in music and painting has led us to modern classical music and painting that the majority of us just dont get. Beauty can be seen when it emerges, but isnt something to strive for in isolation of a larger context. In the software world, the larger context would be the utility of the software to the end user. Dont give users the opportunity to lock themselves. Any fool can make the simple complex, only a smart person can make the complex simple. To do something well you have to love it. So to the extent you can preserve hacking as something you love, you're likely to do it well. Try to keep the sense of wonder you had about programming at age 14. If you're worried that your current job is rotting your brain, it probably is. If you give him a penny for his thoughts, you'd get change. Not the sharpest knife in the drawer. A prime candidate for natural deselection. Only bad designers blame their failings on the users. Humans aren't rational -- they rationalize. And I don't just mean "some of them" or "other people". I'm talking about everyone. We have a "logic engine" in our brains, but for the most part, it's not the one in the driver's seat -- instead it operates after the fact, generating rationalizations and excuses for our behavior. What do Americans look for in a car? A lie detector would confirm this. In most cases, however, they aren't saying what they mean. The culture code. When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail. Good coders code, great reuse. The lesson of the story might appear to be that self-interested and ambitious people in power are often the cause of wastefulness in developing countries. But self-interested and ambitious people are in positions of power, great and small, all over the world. In many places, they are restrained by the law, the press, and democratic opposition. Cameroon's tragedy is that there is nothing to hold self-interest in check. To solve your problems you must learn new skills, adapt new thought patterns, and become a different person than you were before that problem. God has crafted you for success. In the middle of every adversity lie your best opportunities. Discover it, build upon it and move forward in your journey to live an extraordinary life. You owe it to yourself to live a great life. Dont let negative thoughts pull you down. Be grateful and open to learn and grow. If there is a will, there is a way. Having large case statements in an object-oriented language is a sure sign your design is flawed. Being a programmer is the same way. The only way to be a good programmer is to write code. When you realize you haven't been writing much code lately, and it seems like all you do is brag about code you wrote in the past, and people start looking at you funny while you're shooting your mouth off, realize it's because they know. They might not even know they know, but they know. So, yes, doing what you love brings success, and by all means, throw yourself a nice big party, buy yourself a nice car, soak up the adulation of an adoring crowd. Then shut the fuck up and get back to work. Another feature about this guy is his low threshold of boredom. He'll pick up on a task and work frantically at it, accomplishing wonders in a short time and then get bored and drop it before its properly finished. He'll do nothing but strum his guitar and lie around in bed for several days after. Thats also part of the pattern too; periods of frenetic activity followed by periods of melancholia, withdrawal and inactivity. This is a bipolar personality. The bipolar lisp programmer My dream is that people adopt it on its own merits. We're not trying to bend Ruby on Rails to fit the enterprise, we're encouraging enterprises to bend to Ruby on Rails. Come if you like it, stay away if you don't. We're not going head over heels to accommodate the enterprise or to lure them away from Java. That's how you end up with Java, if you start bending to special interest groups. New eyes have X-ray vision. [someone that hasn't written it is more likely to spot the bug. "someone" can be you after a break] So - what are the most important problems in software engineering? Id answer dealing with complexity. So the mere constraint of staying in regular contact with us will push you to make things happen, because otherwise you'll be embarrassed to tell us that you haven't done anything new since the last time we talked. The choice of the university is mostly important for the piece of paper you get at the end. The education you get depends on you. Remember that you are humans in the first place and only after that programmers. Humans differ from animals to the degree that they are not merely an end result of their conditioning, but are able to reflect on their experiences and strategies, and apply insight to make changes in the way they live to modify the outcome. As builders and creators finding the perfect solution should not be our main goal. We should find the perfect problem. Just like carpentry, measure twice cut once. The good thing about reinventing the wheel is that you get a round one. I feel it is everybodies obligation to reach for the best in themselves and use that for the interest of mankind. Abstraction is a form of data compression: absolutely necessary, because human short-term memory is so small, but the critically important aspect of abstraction is the algorithm that gets you from the name back to the "uncompressed" details. Have you ever noticed that when you sit down to write something, half the ideas that end up in it are ones you thought of while writing it? The same thing happens with software. Working to implement one idea gives you more ideas. In general, we can think of data as defined by some collection of selectors and constructors, together with specified conditions that these procedures must fulfill in order to be a valid representation. What is meant by data? Resume writing is just like dating, or applying for a bank loan, in that nobody wants you if you're desperate. Mastering isnt a survival instinct; its an urge to excel. Mastering is one of the experiences that delineates us from animals. It is striving to be more tomorrow than we are today; to perfectly pitch the ball over home plate; to craft the perfect sentence in an article; to open the oven and feel the warm, richly-scented cloud telling you dinner is going to be absolutely extraordinary. We humans crave perfection, to be masters of our domain, to distinguish ourselves by sheer skill and prowess. It(mastering)s knowing what you are doing. Well then. How could you possibly live without automated refactoring tools? How else could you coordinate the caterpillar-like motions of all Javas identical tiny legs, its thousands of similar parts? Ill tell you how: Ruby is a butterfly. You will never become a Great Programmer until you acknowledge that you will always be a Terrible Programmer. You will remain a Great Programmer for only as long as you acknowledge that you are still a Terrible Programmer. If I tell you I'm good, you would probably think I'm boasting. If I tell you I'm no good, you know I'm lying. Let me try to get this straight: Lisp is a language for describing algorithms. This was JohnMcCarthy's original purpose, anyway: to build something more convenient than a Turing machine. Lisp is not about file, socket or GUI programming - If something isnt working, you need to look back and figure out what got you excited in the first place. m) Pay attention to opportunity cost at all times. Doing one thing means not doing other things. This is a form of risk that is very easy to ignore, to your detriment. Seize any opportunity, or anything that looks like opportunity. They are rare, much rarer than you think I think that a lot of programmers are ignoring an important point when people talk about reducing code repetition on large projects. Part of the idea is that large projects are intrinsically *wrong*. That you should be looking at making a number of smaller projects that are composable, even if you never end up reusing one of those smaller projects elsewhere. We tend to seek easy, single-factor explanations of success. For most important things, though, success actually requires avoiding many separate causes of failure. Things which matter most must never be at the mercy of things which matter least. I think the root of your mistake is saying that macros don't scale to larger groups. The real truth is that macros don't scale to stupider groups. Argue with idiots, and you become an idiot. If you compete with slaves you become a slave. Always dive down into a problem and get your hands on the deepest issue behind the problem. All other considerations are to dismissed as "engineering details"; they can be sorted out after the basic problem has been solved. Don't have good ideas if you aren't willing to be responsible for them. It is impossible to sharpen a pencil with a blunt axe. It is equally vain to try to do it with ten blunt axes instead. If we wish to count lines of code, we should not regard them as lines produced but as lines spent. The most damaging phrase in the language is, It's always been done that way. Getting back to failing early, I've learned it's important to completely fail. Get fired. Shoot the project, then burn its corpse. Melt the CVS repository and microwave the backup CDs. When things go wrong, I've often tried to play the hero from start to finish. Guess what? Some projects are doomed no matter what. Some need skills I don't possess. And some need a fresh face. The only thing a man should ever be 100% convinced of is his own ignorance. The best people and organizations have the attitude of wisdom: The courage to act on what they know right now and the humility to change course when they find better evidence. The quest for management magic and breakthrough ideas is overrated; being a master of the obvious is underrated. In theory, theres no difference between theory and practice. But in practice, there is. Work is overrated. Act from reason, and failure makes you rethink and study harder. Act from faith, and failure makes you blame someone and push harder. Measure everything you can about the product, and you'll start seeing patterns.Quality of the people is better than the quality of the business idea. Crappy people can screw up the best idea in the world. The only constant in the world of hi-tech is change. Write it properly first. It's easier to make a correct program fast, than to make a fast program correct. You cant get to version 500 if you dont start with a version 1. The wonderful and frustrating thing about understanding yourself is that nobody can do it for you. When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth. In order to understand what another person is saying, you must assume that it is true and try to find out what it could be true. Ajourneyofathousandmilesmustbeginwithasinglestep. Cs great for what its great for. There is one meaning [for static in C]: a global variable that is invisible outside the current scope, be it a function or a file. Processors don't get better so that they can have more free time. Processors get better so you can have more free time. The venerable master Qc Na was walking with his student, Anton. Hoping to prompt the master into a discussion, Anton said "Master, I have heard that objects are a very good thing - is this true?" Qc Na looked pityingly at his student and replied, "Foolish pupil - objects are merely a poor man's closures."Chastised, Anton took his leave from his master and returned to his cell, intent on studying closures. He carefully read the entire "Lambda: The Ultimate" series of papers and its cousins, and implemented a small Scheme interpreter with a closure-based object system. He learned much, and looked forward to informing his master of his progress.On his next walk with Qc Na, Anton attempted to impress his master by saying "Master, I have diligently studied the matter, and now understand that objects are truly a poor man's closures." Qc Na responded by hitting Anton with his stick, saying "When will you learn? Closures are a poor man's object." At that moment, Anton became enlightened. -- Anton van Straaten (Na = Norman Adams, Qa = Christian Queinnec) Understanding why C++ is the way it is helps a programmer use it well. A deep understanding of a tool is essential for an expert craftsman. No art, however minor, demands less than total dedication if you want to excel in it. The minute you put the blame on someone else youve switch things from being a problem you can control to a problem outside of your control. State is the root of all evil. In particular functions with side effects should be avoided. It is better to be quiet and thought a fool than to open your mouth and remove all doubt. A tail call allows a function to return the result of another function without leaving an entry on the stack. Tail recursion is a specific case of tail calling. Simplicity means the achievement of maximum effect with minimum means. Normality is the route to nowhere. The problem is that Microsoft just has no taste. And I don't mean that in a small way, I mean that in a big way. Do you want to sell sugared water all your life or do you want to change the world? Creativity and innovation always build on the past. The past always tries to control the creativity that builds on it. Free societies enable the future by limiting the past. Ours is less and less a free society. Good work is no done by humble men. Simplicity and pragmatism beat complexity and theory any day. The proof is by reductio ad absurdum, and reductio ad absurdum, which Euclid loved so much, is one of a mathematicians finest weapons. It is a far finer gambit than any chess gambit: a chess player may offer the sacrifice of a pawn or even a piece, but a mathematician offers the game. Remember, always be yourselfunless you suck! All great things require great dedication. I'm always happy to trade performance for readability as long as the former isn't already scarce. The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. Anoutteredfromthedeepestconvictionis better than a yes merely uttered to please or what is worse, to avoid trouble. I think it is wise, and only honest, to warn you that my goal is immodest. It is not my purpose to "transfer knowledge" to you that, subsequently, you can forget again. My purpose is no less than to effectuate in each of you a noticeable, irreversable change. I want you to gain, for the rest of your lives, the insight that beautiful proofs are not "found" by trial anf error but are the result of a consciously applied design discipline. The general principle for complexity design is this: Think locally, act locally. de Programming is the art of figuring out what you want so precisely that even a machine can do it. Hence my urgent advice to all of you to reject the morals of the bestseller society and to find, to start with, your reward in your own fun. This is quite feasible, for the challenge of simplification is so fascinating that, if we do our job properly, we shall have the greatest fun in the world. On the nature of computing science. Remember: you are alone. Every time you can get help from someone, it is an opportunity: you should eagerly size it. But then, promptly return to normal mode: you are alone and you must be prepared to solve every problem yourself. Making All Software Into Tools Reduces Risk. Some may say Ruby is a bad rip-off of Lisp or Smalltalk, and I admit that. But it is nicer to ordinary people. C and Lisp stand at opposite ends of the spectrum; they're each great at what the other one sucks at. Two people should stay together if together they are better people than they would be individually. To the optimist, the glass is half full. To the pessimist, the glass is half empty. To the engineer, the glass is twice as big as it needs to be. It is practically impossible to teach good programming to students that have had a prior exposure to BASIC: as potential programmers they are mentally mutilated beyond hope of regeneration. Whatever is worth doing at all, is worth doing well. Rules of Optimization: Rule 1: Dont do it. Rule 2 (for experts only): Dont do it yet. More computing sins are committed in the name of efficiency (without necessarily achieving it) than for any other single reason - including blind stupidity. We should forget about small efficiencies, say about 97% of the time: premature optimization is the root of all evil. The best is the enemy of the good. The job of a leader today is not to create followers. Its to create more leaders. The president was visiting NASA headquarters and stopped to talk to a man who was holding a mop. And what do you do? he asked. The man, a janitor, replied, Im helping to put a man on the moon, sir. Only make new mistakes. You can recognize truth by its beauty and simplicity. When you get it right, it is obvious that it is right. Talkers are no good doers. Photography is painting with light. Good artists copy. Great artists steal. A guideline in the process of stepwise refinement should be the principle to decompose decisions as much as possible, to untangle aspects which are only seemingly interdependent, and to defer those decisions which concern details of representation as long as possible. Vigorous writing is concise. A sentence should contain no unnecessary words, a paragraph no unnecessary sentences, for the same reason that a drawing should have no unnecessary lines and a machine no unnecessary parts. This requires not that the writer make all sentences short or avoid all detail and treat subjects only in outline, but that every word tell. The problem is that small examples fail to convince, and large examples are too big to follow. We are the sum of our behaviours; excellence therefore is not an act but a habit. The purpose of abstraction is not to be vague, but to create a new semantic level in which one can be absolutely precise. Every man prefers belief to the exercise of judgment. Its hard to grasp abstractions if you dont understand what theyre abstracting away from. I find that the harder I work, the more luck I seem to have. Don't stay in bed, unless you can make money in bed. If everything seems under control, you're not going fast enough. Chance favors the prepared mind. Controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming. The function of good software is to make the complex appear to be simple. Programmers are in a race with the Universe to create bigger and better idiot-proof programs, while the Universe is trying to create bigger and better idiots. So far the Universe is winning. A hacker on a roll may be able to producein a period of a few monthssomething that a small development group (say, 7-8 people) would have a hard time getting together over a year. IBM used to report that certain programmers might be as much as 100 times as productive as other workers, or more. The best programmers are not marginally better than merely good ones. They are an order-of-magnitude better, measured by whatever standard: conceptual creativity, speed, ingenuity of design, or problem-solving ability. ss A great lathe operator commands several times the wage of an average lathe operator, but a great writer of software code is worth 10,000 times the price of an average software writer. Measuring programming progress by lines of code is like measuring aircraft building progress by weight. First learn computer science and all the theory. Next develop a programming style. Then forget all that and just hack. To iterate is human, to recurse divine. The best thing about a boolean is even if you are wrong, you are only off by a bit. Should array indices start at 0 or 1? My compromise of 0.5 was rejected without, I thought, proper consideration. The use of COBOL cripples the mind; its teaching should therefore be regarded as a criminal offense. It is practically impossible to teach good programming style to students that have had prior exposure to BASIC. As potential programmers, they are mentally mutilated beyond hope of regeneration. One of the main causes of the fall of the Roman Empire was thatlacking zerothey had no way to indicate successful termination of their C programs. Software is like sex: Its better when its free. Any code of your own that you havent looked at for six or more months might as well have been written by someone else. Good programmers use their brains, but good guidelines save us having to think out every case. Considering the current sad state of our computer programs, software development is clearly still a black art, and cannot yet be called an engineering discipline. If debugging is the process of removing bugs, then programming must be the process of putting them in. Always code as if the guy who ends up maintaining your code will be a violent psychopath who knows where you live. Everything that can be invented has been invented. I think theres a world market for about 5 computers. It would appear that we have reached the limits of what it is possible to achieve with computer technology, although one should be careful with such statements, as they tend to sound pretty silly in 5 years. But what is it good for? There is no reason for any individual to have a computer in his home. 640K ought to be enough for anybody. Windows NT addresses 2 Gigabytes of RAM, which is more than any application will ever need. We will never become a truly paper-less society until the Palm Pilot folks come out with WipeMe 1.0. If it keeps up, man will atrophy all his limbs but the push-button finger. Functional programming is like describing your problem to a mathematician. Imperative programming is like giving instructions to an idiot. I guess, when you're drunk, every woman looks beautiful and every language looks (like) a Lisp :) Many of life's failures are people who did not realize how close they were to success when they gave up. You must always work not just within but below your means. If you can handle three elements, handle only two. If you can handle ten, then handle five. In that way the ones you do handle, you handle with more ease, more mastery and you create a feeling of strength in reserve. When youve got the code all ripped apart, its like a car thats all disassembled. Youve got all the parts tying all over your garage and you have to replace the broken part or the car will never run. Its not fun until the code gets back to the baseline again. . Well, if you talk about programming to a group of programmers who use the same language, they can become almost evangelistic about the language. They form a tight-knit community, hold to certain beliefs, and follow certain rules in their programming. Its like a church with a programming language for a Bible. Its a problem if the design doesnt let you add features at a later date. If you have to redo a program, the hours you spend can cause you to lose your competitive edge. A flexible program demonstrates the difference between a good designer and someone who is just getting a piece of code out. How friendly will this machine be? Well, I dont think its a matter of friendliness, because ultimately if the program is going to accomplish anything of value, it will probably be relatively complex. Some people suggest that machines would be friendlier if input could be in a natural language. But natural language is probably the worst kind of input because it can be quite ambiguous. The process of retrieving information from the computer would be so time-consuming that you would be better off spending that time getting the information directly from an expert. -- Gary Kildall (inventor of CP/M, one of the first OS for the micro). The only way of discovering the limits of the possible is to venture a little way past them into the impossible. Any sufficiently advanced technology is undistinguishable from magic. That is the inevitable human response. Were reluctant to believe that great discoveries are in the air. We want to believe that great discoveries are in our headsand to each party in the multiple the presence of the other party is invariably cause for suspicion. Good ideas are out there for anyone with the wit and the will to find them. A person won't become proficient at something until he or she has done it many times. In other words., if you want someone to be really good at building a software system, he or she will have to have built 10 or more systems of that type.Training research shows that if you get speed now you can get quality later. But if you don't get speed you will never get quality in the long run. Beware of bugs in the above code; I have only proved it correct, not tried it. Wear your best for your execution and stand dignified. Your last recourse against randomness is how you act  if you cant control outcomes, you can control the elegance of your behaviour. You will always have the last word. The human brain starts working the moment you are born and never stops until you stand up to speak in public. The trouble with the world is that the stupid are always cocksure and the intelligent are always filled with doubt. Simple, clear purpose and principles give rise to complex, intelligent behavior. Complex rules and regulations give rise to simple, stupid behavior. For complex systems, the compiler and development environment need to be in the same language that its supporting. It's the only way to grow code. Simple things should be simple. Complex things should be possible. I invented the term Object-Oriented, and I can tell you I did not have C++ in mind. All creativity is an extended form of a joke. If you don't fail at least 90 percent of the time, you're not aiming high enough. Revolutions come from standing on the shoulders of giants and facing in a better direction.If it looks like a duck, walks like a duck, and quacks like a duck, it's a duck. It was Edison who said 1% inspiration, 99% perspiration. That may have been true a hundred years ago. These days it's 0.01% inspiration, 99.99% perspiration, and the inspiration is the easy part. The greatest challenge to any thinker is stating the problem in a way that will allow a solution. No matter how much you plan youre likely to get half wrong anyway. So dont do the paralysis through analysis thing. That only slows progress and saps morale. Innovation comes from saying no to 1,000 things to make sure we dont get on the wrong track or try to do too much. The ability to simplify means to eliminate the unnecessary so that the necessary may speak. However beautiful the strategy, you should occasionally look at the results. Genius is 1% inspiration and 99% perspiration. Id rather write programs to write programs than write programs.I had to learn how to teach less, so that more could be learned. Workers of the world, the chains that bind you are not held in place by a ruling class, a "superior" race, by society, the state, or a leader. They are held in place by none other than yourself. Those who seek to exploit are not themselves free, for they place no value in freedom. Who is it that really employs you and commands you to pick up your daily load? And who is it that you allow to pass judgment on the adequacy of your toil? Who have you empowered to dangle the carrot before you and threaten with disapproval? Who, when you wake each morning, sends you off to what you call your work? The Work Begins Anew, The Hope Rises Again, And The Dream Lives On. The hardest part of designis keeping features out. Before software can be reusable it first has to be usable. The opposite of love is not hate, it is indifference. Perpetual optimism is a force multiplier. Be the change you want to see in the world. The art of getting someone else to do something you want done because he wants to do it [Leadership]. No one is all evil. Everybody has a good side. If you keep waiting, it will comme up. Experience is what you get when you don't get what you want. Luck is where preparation meets opportunity. The greatest of all weaknesses is the fear of appearing weak. It's easier to ask forgiveness than it is to get permission. An investment in knowledge always pays the best interest. Natives who beat drums to drive off evil spirits are objects of scorn to smart Americans who blow horns to break up traffic jams. Hire people smarter than you. Work with people smarter than you. Listen to them. Let them lead you. Take the blame for all failures, give away the credit for all successes. Give up control. You never really had it anyway. Only two things are infinite, the universe and human stupidity. And I'm not so sure about the former. The important thing is not to stop questioning. Do not accept anything because it comes from the mouth of a respected person. Work as intensely as you play and play as intensely as you work. A witty saying proves nothing. Sound methodology can empower and liberate the creative mind; it cannot inflame or inspire the drudge. Do not spoil what you have by desiring what you have not; but remember that what you now have was once among the things only hoped for. Nobody can make you feel inferior without your consent. If you tell the truth, you don't have to remember anything. You know you're in love when you can't fall asleep because reality is finally better than your dreams. The opposite of love is not hate, it's indifference. Life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans. Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect. To be yourself in a world that is constantly trying to make you something else is the greatest accomplishment. It is not a lack of love, but a lack of friendship that makes unhappy marriages. In terms of energy, it's better to make a wrong choice than none at all. Courage is grace under pressure. Satisfaction lies in mindful repetition, the discovery of endless richness in subtle variations on familiar themes. -- George Leonard, Mastery. Before enlightenment, chop wood and carry water. After enlightenment, chop wood and carry water. Acknowledging the negative doesn't mean sniveling [whining, complaining]; it means facing the truth and then moving on. Whatever you can do, or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius, power, and magic in it. What we choose to fight is so tiny! What fights us is so great! When we win it's with small things, and the triumph itself makes us small. Winning does not tempt that man. This is how he grows: by being defeated, decisively, by constantly greater beings. We fail to realize that mastery is not about perfection. It's about a process, a journey. The master is the one who stays on the path day after day, year after year. The master is the one who is willing to try, and fail, and try again, for as long as he or she lives. Are you willing to wear your white belt? Imagine that, a few millennia from now, down the steep slope that followed Peak Everything, the sixth Great Extinction is finally winding down. The pace of species extinction is slowing, and landscapes, while still often showing the signs of many recent ecological catastrophes due to ongoing tumultuous climate change, are beginning to show more patterns of succession. Our lovely planet has been through this kind of change many times before: At least twice its been choked in dust after meteorites or volcanoes that produced a global night that lasted a year and soaked the planet in a deluge of rain with the pH of battery acid. At least once its been totally encased, pole to pole, in a sheet of ice miles thick. Imagine that this Future Earth looks about as different from the way it did in the 21st century as it did the last time the average surface temperature was 25C rather than 15C  during the early Eocene epoch about 50 million years ago. Imagine that more than half of the planet is therefore now desert, including the Western US, Southern Europe, the Western 2/3 of all tropical areas, and all of the areas that were already desert in the 21st century. Much of the rest of the planet is now rainforest, subject to torrential and relentless monsoons, including former Arctic and Antarctic areas. There are no ice sheets or glaciers now. Rising sea levels have engulfed the formal coastal areas and reduced overall planetary land mass by about 20%, and coasts are now mostly steep and mountainous. Imagine that human population has declined to about 50 million, and is still declining, though much more slowly than during the earlier stages of the Great Extinction. The remaining humans have abandoned all technologies, in part because there is no cheap accessible energy to power them, and in part because with population now so small and declining, there is no real need for technologies for a full and healthy life. Population is still declining because humans are just not naturally well-adapted to very hot or changeable climates, whereas many of the succession species that now feed on humans (jaguars and crocodiles, for example) are much better adapted to prevailing climates. Nuclear radiation from abandoned 21st century power plants has also created ongoing birth rate and illness problems for humans and other species. Imagine that, despite the apparent similarities between these post-civilization humans and prehistoric tree-dwelling humans, there are a number of qualities that clearly distinguish them. These differences are not physical but behavioural, due to differences in selected genetics, learned behaviours passed between generations, and differences in environment. Post-civilization humans are still not as intuitive as prehistoric humans, but they are more imaginative and hence more playful. They are more empathetic, because they still pass on the embodied grief of having experienced massive suffering and hardship just a few hundred generations ago. They still retain vestiges of skill at abstraction and capacity to synergize, that comes through in and is practiced in their art and music composition. They also ironically retain vestiges of competitiveness, even though this no longer serves a useful purpose. If you can, perhaps you can help me imagine how we can make it to this strange and wonderful future Earth, from where we are now, with the minimal amount of intervening suffering of human and other creatures, and the minimal amount of damage to this planet we call home. What could we do, now, and in stages over the coming few decades as the ragged flywheel of our civilization comes violently and shudderingly apart, that would prepare us to cope better, to be hurt less, to do less harm? The most technologically efficient machine that man has ever invented is the book. Just because something doesnt do what you planned it to do doesnt mean its useless. It has become appallingly obvious that our technology has exceeded our humanity. One machine can do the work of fifty ordinary men. No machine can do the work of one extraordinary man. Technology is a word that describes something that doesnt work yet. All this modern technology just makes people try to do everything at once. We are stuck with technology when what we really want is just stuff that works. Humanity is acquiring all the right technology for all the wrong reasons. Its supposed to be automatic, but actually you have to push this button. Its supposed to be automatic, but actually you have to push this button. Books may look like nothing more than words on a page, but they are actually an infinitely complex imaginotransference technology that translates odd, inky squiggles into pictures inside your head. I think that novels that leave out technology misrepresent life as badly as Victorians misrepresented life by leaving out sex. Technological progress has merely provided us with more efficient means for going backwards. The human spirit must prevail over technology. Technology the knack of so arranging the world that we dont have to experience it. Technology frightens me to death. Its designed by engineers to impress other engineers. And they always come with instruction booklets that are written by engineers for other engineers  which is why almost no technology ever works. The great myth of our times is that technology is communication. Technology made large populations possible; large populations now make technology indispensable. Computers are useless. They can only give you answers. TV and the Internet are good because they keep stupid people from spending too much time out in public. This is the whole point of technology. It creates an appetite for immortality on the one hand. It threatens universal extinction on the other. Technology is lust removed from nature. The greatest achievement of humanity is not its works of art, science, or technology, but the recognition of its own dysfunction. First we thought the PC was a calculator. Then we found out how to turn numbers into letters with ASCII  and we thought it was a typewriter. Then we discovered graphics, and we thought it was a television. With the World Wide Web, weve realized its a brochure. Communications tools dont get socially interesting until they get technologically boring. Any sufficiently advanced technology is equivalent to magic. Ethics change with technology. So much technology, so little talent. Programs must be written for people to read, and only incidentally for machines to execute. For a list of all the ways technology has failed to improve the quality of life, please press three. Conventional names define a person's past: ancestry, ethnicity, nationality, religion. I am not who I was ten years ago and certainly not who I will be in twenty years. I am a 21st century person who was accidentally launched in the 20th. I have a deep nostalgia for the future. The 'tragedy' of the slow growth of immortalism pertains mostly to them, and perhaps to you  not so much to me or to us, the committed immortalists. We already have made our arrangements for cryostasis after clinical death  signed our contracts with existing organizations and allocated the money. We will have our chance, and with a little bit of luck will 'taste the wine of centuries unborn'. The only thing we can try to do is to influence the direction scientists are taking. Since we might soon be able to engineer our desires too, perhaps the real questions facing us is not 'What do we want to become?', but "What do we want to want?' Those who are not spooked by this question probably haven't given it enough thought. I saw them do it. Chip vandals. Right there on Commerce, behind the main roadThey cut his head open. They know I watched. Come now, Tichy. For half a century civilization hasn't been left to its own devices. A hundred years ago a certain Dior was dictating fashions in clothing. Today this sort of regulating has embraced all walks of life. If prostheticism is voted in, I assure you, in a couple of years everyone will consider the possession of a soft, hairy, sweating body to be shameful and indecent. A body needs washing, deodorizing, caring for, and even then it breaks down, while in a prostheticized society you can snap on the loveliest creations of modern engineering. What woman doesn't want to have silver iodide instead of eyes, telescoping breasts, angel's wings, iridescent legs, and feet that sing with every step? A mere two days without eating and you passed out. It must be tough not being able to photosynthesize. No we're not playing God. We're only attempting to set things right. A lot of people recoil from the word "drugs" - which is understandable given today's noxious street drugs and their uninspiring medical counterparts. Yet even academics and intellectuals in our society typically take the prototypical dumb drug, ethyl alcohol. If it's socially acceptable to take a drug that makes you temporarily happy and stupid, then why not rationally design drugs to make people perpetually happier and smarter? Presumably, in order to limit abuse-potential, one would want any ideal pleasure drug to be akin - in one limited but important sense - to nicotine, where the smoker's brain finely calibrates its optimal level: there is no uncontrolled dose-escalation. Too many of our preferences reflect nasty behaviours and states of mind that were genetically adaptive in the ancestral environment. Instead, wouldn't it be better if we rewrote our own corrupt code? It seemed to me that transhumanism was an expression of the profound human longing to transcend the confusion and desire and impotence and sickness of the body, cowering in the darkening shadow of its own decay. This longing had historically been the domain of religion, and was now the increasingly fertile terrain of technology. Ask anyone whos transgender. Theyll tell you theyre trapped in the wrong body. But me, Im trapped in the wrong body because Im trapped in a body. All bodies are the wrong body. We fail to take responsibility, to act productively in the interest of ourselves and others. And in our attempts at a better life, we are often severely limited or thwarted by the immature and socially inept behavior of ourselves and others. There is a great fabric of relations, behaviors and emotions, reverberating with human and animal bliss and suffering, a web of intimate and formal relations, both direct and indirect. Nasty whirlwinds of feedback cycles blow through this great multidimensional web, pulsating with hurt and degradation. My lacking human development blocks your possible human development. My lack of understanding of you, your needs perspectives, hurts you in a million subtle ways. I become a bad lover, a bad colleague, a bad fellow citizen and human being. We are interconnected: You cannot get away from my hurt and wounds. They will follow you all of your lifeI will be your daughters abusive boyfriend, your belligerent neighbor from hell. And you will never grow wings because there will always be mean bosses, misunderstanding families and envious friends. And you will tell yourself that is how life must be. But it is not how life has to be. Once you begin to be able to see the social-psychological fabric of everyday life, it becomes increasingly apparent that the fabric is relatively easy to change, to develop. Metamodern politics aims to make everyone secure at the deepest psychological level, so that we can live authentically; a byproduct of which is a sense of meaning in life and lasting happiness; a byproduct of which is kindness and an increased ability to cooperate with others; a byproduct of which is deeper freedom and better concrete results in the lives of everyone; a byproduct of which is a society less likely to collapse into a heap of atrocities. My kids understand what Im doing. Theyre totally saturated in it. My daughter, shes eleven. A little while ago, she said to me, Dad, I dont care if you become a robot, but you have to keep your face. I dont want you to replace your face. Personally, I dont have any sentimental attachment to my face, any more than I have a sentimental attachment to any other part of my body. I could look like the Mars Rover for all I give a shit. But shes pretty attached to my face, I guess. Id begun to think of the Immortality Bus as the Entropy Bus, and of ourselves as trundling across Texas in a great mobile metaphor for the inevitable decline of all things, the disintegration of all systems over time. Nature is crooked. I wanted right angles and straight lines. Ice! Oh, why do they all drip? You cut yourself opening a can of tuna fish and you die. One puncture in your foot and your life leaks out through your toe. What are they for, moose antlers? Get down on all fours and live. You're protected on your hands and knees. It's either that or wings. You should get more sleep," he remarked. "You won't need so many chemicals." She raised an eyebrow. "This from the man with half his bloodstream registered in the patent office." Jovellanos hadn't had her shots yet. She didn't need them in her current position, but she was too good at her job to stay where she was much longer. Desjardins looked forward to the day when her righteous stance on the Sanctity of Free Will went head-to-head against the legal prerequisites for promotion. She'd probably take one look at the list of perks and the new salary, and cave. He had, anyway. Transhumanism is defined as: The intellectual and cultural movement that affirms the possibility and desirability of fundamentally improving the human condition through applied reason, especially by developing and making widely available technologies to eliminate aging and to greatly enhance human intellectual, physical, and psychological capacities; and the study of the ramifications, promises, and potential dangers of technologies that will enable us to overcome fundamental human limitations, and the related study of the ethical matters involved in developing and using such technologies. Your mind is software. Program it. Your body is a shell. Change it. Death is a disease. Cure it. Extinction is approaching. Fight it. To be what you want to be: isn't this the essence of being human? It may be that our role on this planet is not to worship God - but to create him. I believe in transhumanism: once there are enough people who can truly say that, the human species will be on the threshold of a new kind of existence, as different from ours as ours is from that of Peking man. It will at last be consciously fulfilling its real destiny. The more we learn about what we are, the more options we will discern about what to try to become. Americans have long honored the self-made man, but now that we are actually learning enough to be able to remake ourselves into something new, many flinch. Many would apparently rather bumble around with their eyes closed, trusting in tradition, than look around to see whats about to happen. Yes, it is unnerving; yes, it can be scary. After all, there are entirely new mistakes we are now empowered to make for the first time. But its the beginning of a great new adventure for our knowing species. And its much more exciting, as well as safer, if we open our eyes. I not only think that we will tamper with Mother Nature, I think Mother wants us to. There is nothing in transhumanism but the same common sense that underlies standard humanism, rigorously applied to cases outside our modern-day experience. A million-year lifespan? If its possible, why not? The prospect may seem very foreign and strange, relative to our current everyday experience. It may create a sensation of future shock. And yet  is life a bad thing? Could the moral question really be just that simple? Yes. And someday when the descendants of humanity have spread from star to star, they won't tell the children about the history of Ancient Earth until they're old enough to bear it; and when they learn they'll weep to hear that such a thing as Death had ever once existed! Will robots inherit the earth? Yes, but they will be our children. We owe our minds to the deaths and lives of all the creatures that were ever engaged in the struggle called Evolution. Our job is to see that all this work shall not end up in meaningless waste. Once we know what we need to do, our nanotechnologies should enable us to construct replacement bodies and brains that won't be constrained to work at the crawling pace of "real time." The events in our computer chips already happen millions of times faster than those in brain cells. Hence, we could design our "mind-children" to think a million times faster than we do. To such a being, half a minute might seem as long as one of our years, and each hour as long as an entire human lifetime. John (an android): In all your travels, have you ever seen a star go supernova? Ellen: No. John: No? Well, I have. I saw a star explode and send out the building blocks of the universe. Other stars, other planets and eventually other life. A supernova! Creation itself! I was there, I wanted to see it and be part of the moment. And you know how I perceived one of the most glorious events in the universe? With these ridiculous gelatinous orbs in my skull! With eyes designed to perceive only a tiny fraction of the EM spectrum. With ears designed only to hear vibrations in the air. Ellen: The five of us designed you to be as human as possible. John: I DON'T WANT TO BE HUMAN! I want to see gamma rays! I want to hear X-rays, and I -- I want to -- I want to smell dark matter! Do you see the absurdity of what I am? I can't even express these things properly because I have to -- I have to conceptualize complex ideas in this stupid, limiting spoken language! But I know I want to reach out with something other than these prehensile paws, and feel the solar wind of a supernova flowing over me! I'm a machine, and I could know much more, I could experience so much more! But I'm trapped in this absurd body! Here I had tried a straightforward extrapolation of technology, and found myself precipitated over an abyss. Its a problem we face every time we consider the creation of intelligences greater than our own. When this happens, human history will have reached a kind of singularity  a place where extrapolation breaks down and new models must be applied  and the world will pass beyond our understanding. A small, but significant, minority in the body modification community sees body modification as the first steps in transhumanism. The connection is easy to see: in casting off the genetically-mandated exterior form of a standard human, we are breaking our minds of the belief that a human must look a certain way. Once the body of a human is modifiable for aesthetic reasons not tied to spirituality or tradition, it is possible to begin to modify that body in hopes of improving it. Beyond the abstract connection, there are very concrete connections. The aspect of transhumanism generally seen as most immediately viable is the the merging man and machine  indeed, it is so widely seen as viable, that dozens of major Hollywood films have been made about it, and the word "cyborg" is a household word. The most immediately visible way of merging man and machine is to simply implant useful machines into the human body. I was born human. But this was an accident of fate - a condition merely of time and place. I believe it's something we have the power to change. Buddhism is a faith tradition and set of spiritual practices whose core idea is that human beings can become more than human by application of mental technology and self-discipline. As such it is probably the most compatible of the older faiths with transhumanism. But it is also quite challenging for many transhumanists in its insistence that there is no discrete, continuous ego that could be protected and perpetuated. Many of the immortalists, for instance, find that a threatening idea, but I think we will increasingly see the truth of the emptiness of the self as we apply neurotechnologies and life extension. You are in physical existence to learn and understand that your energy, translated into feelings, thoughts and emotions, causes all experience. There are no exceptions. Evolution moves towards greater complexity, greater elegance, greater knowledge, greater intelligence, greater beauty, greater creativity, and greater levels of subtle attributes such as love. In every monotheistic tradition God is likewise described as all of these qualities, only without limitation: infinite knowledge, infinite intelligence, infinite beauty, infinite creativity, infinite love, and so on. Of course, even the accelerating growth of evolution never achieves an infinite level, but as it explodes exponentially it certainly moves rapidly in that direction. So evolution moves inexorably towards this conception of God, although never quite reaching this ideal. We can regard, therefore, the freeing of our thinking from the severe limitations of its biological form to be an essentially spiritual undertaking. The bold code of the transhumanist will rise. That's an inevitable, undeniable fact. It's embedded in the undemocratic nature of technology and our own teleological evolutionary advancement. It is the future. We are the future like it or not. And it needs to molded, guided, and handled correctly by the strength and wisdom of transhumanist scientists with their nations and resources standing behind them, facilitating them. It needs to be supported in a way that we can make a successful transition into it, and not sacrifice ourselveseither by its overwhelming power or by a fear of harnessing that power. You need to put your resources into the technology. Into our education system. Into our universities, industries, and ideas. Into the strongest of our society. Into the brightest of our society. Into the best of our society So that we can attain the future. If a reasoning human being loves and values life, they will want to live as long as possiblethe desire to be immortal. Nevertheless, its impossible to know if theyre going to be immortal once they die. To do nothing doesnt help the odds of attaining immortalitysince it seems evident that everyone will die someday and possibly cease to exist. To try to do something scientifically constructive towards ensuring immortality beforehand is the most logical conclusion. The idea that a child will belong genetically to one race when that same child has been significantly genetically modified is no longer valid. Transhumanism will overcome this hurdle and many others that have sadly embroiled many countries and communities into longstanding enmity. In 1956, Herb Simon predicted that within ten years computers would beat the world chess champion, compose "aesthetically satisfying" original music, and prove new mathematical theorems. It took forty years, not ten, but all these goals were achievedand within a few years of each other! The music composed by David Cope's programs cannot be distinguished from that composed by Mozart, Beethoven, and Bach. In 1976, a computer was used in the proof of the long-unsolved "four color problem." We refer to the question: What sort of creature man's next successor in the supremacy of the earth is likely to be. We have often heard this debated; but it appears to us that we are ourselves creating our own successors; we are daily adding to the beauty and delicacy of their physical organisation we are daily giving them greater power and supplying by all sorts of ingenious contrivances that self-regulating, self-acting power, which will be to them what intellect has been to the human race. In the course of ages we shall find ourselves the inferior race. Inferior in power, inferior in that moral quality of self-control, we shall look up to them as the acme of all that the best and wisest man can ever dare to aim at. No evil passions, no jealousy, no avarice, no impure desires will disturb the serene might of those glorious creatures. Sin, shame, and sorrow will have no place among them. Their minds will be in a state of perpetual calm, the contentment of a spirit that knows no wants, is disturbed by no regrets. Ambition will never torture them. Ingratitude will never cause them the uneasiness of a moment. The guilty conscience, the hope deferred, the pains of exile, the insolence of office, and the spurns that patient merit of the unworthy takesthese will be entirely unknown to them. "There is no security"to quote his own words"against the ultimate development of mechanical consciousness, in the fact of machines possessing little consciousness now. A mollusc has not much consciousness. Reflect upon the extraordinary advance which machines have made during the last few hundred years, and note how slowly the animal and vegetable kingdoms are advancing. The more highly organized machines are creatures not so much of yesterday, as of the last five minutes, so to speak, in comparison with past time. Either, he proceeds, a great deal of action that has been called purely mechanical and unconscious must be admitted to contain more elements of consciousness than has been allowed hitherto (and in this case germs of consciousness will be found in many actions of the higher machines)Or (assuming the theory of evolution but at the same time denying the consciousness of vegetable and crystalline action) the race of man has descended from things which had no consciousness at all. In this case there is no  priori improbability in the descent of conscious (and more than conscious) machines from those which now exist, except that which is suggested by the apparent absence of anything like a reproductive system in the mechanical kingdom. Herein lies our danger. For many seem inclined to acquiesce in so dishonourable a future. They say that although man should become to the machines what the horse and dog are to us, yet that he will continue to exist, and will probably be better off in a state of domestication under the beneficent rule of the machines than in his present wild condition. We treat our domestic animals with much kindness. We give them whatever we believe to be the best for them; and there can be no doubt that our use of meat has increased their happiness rather than detracted from it. In like manner there is reason to hope that the machines will use us kindly, for their existence will be in a great measure dependent upon ours; they will rule us with a rod of iron, but they will not eat us; they will not only require our services in the reproduction and education of their young, but also in waiting upon them as servants; in gathering food for them, and feeding them; in restoring them to health when they are sick; and in either burying their dead or working up their deceased members into new forms of mechanical existence. The power of custom is enormous, and so gradual will be the change, that man's sense of what is due to himself will be at no time rudely shocked; our bondage will steal upon us noiselessly and by imperceptible approaches; nor will there ever be such a clashing of desires between man and the machines as will lead to an encounter between them. Among themselves the machines will war eternally, but they will still require man as the being through whose agency the struggle will be principally conducted. In point of fact there is no occasion for anxiety about the future happiness of man so long as he continues to be in any way profitable to the machines; he may become the inferior race, but he will be infinitely better off than he is now. Is it not then both absurd and unreasonable to be envious of our benefactors? And should we not be guilty of consummate folly if we were to reject advantages which we cannot obtain otherwise, merely because they involve a greater gain to others than to ourselves? The ability to interact with a computer presence like you would a human assistant is becoming increasingly feasible. T-101: The Skynet funding bill is passed. The system goes on-line August 4th, 1997. Human decisions are removed from strategic defense. Skynet begins to learn, at a geometric rate. It becomes self-aware at 2:14 a.m. eastern time, August 29. In a panic, they try to pull the plug. It may be that our role on this planet is not to worship God but to create him. The question of whether a computer is playing chess, or doing long division, or translating Chinese, is like the question of whether robots can murder or airplanes can fly -- or people; after all, the "flight" of the Olympic long jump champion is only an order of magnitude short of that of the chicken champion (so I'm told). These are questions of decision, not fact; decision as to whether to adopt a certain metaphoric extension of common usage. I have grown accustomed to the disrespect expressed by some of the participants for their colleagues in the other disciplines. "Why, Dan," ask the people in artificial intelligence, "do you waste your time conferring with those neuroscientists? They wave their hands about 'information processing' and worry about where it happens, and which neurotransmitters are involved, but they haven't a clue about the computational requirements of higher cognitive functions." "Why," ask the neuroscientists, "do you waste your time on the fantasies of artificial intelligence? They just invent whatever machinery they want, and say unpardonably ignorant things about the brain." The cognitive psychologists, meanwhile, are accused of concocting models with neither biological plausibility nor proven computational powers; the anthropologists wouldn't know a model if they saw one, and the philosophers, as we all know, just take in each other's laundry, warning about confusions they themselves have created, in an arena bereft of both data and empirically testable theories. With so many idiots working on the problem, no wonder consciousness is still a mystery. All these charges are true, and more besides, but I have yet to encounter any idiots. Mostly the theorists I have drawn from strike me as very smart people  even brilliant people, with the arrogance and impatience that often comes with brilliance  but with limited perspectives and agendas, trying to make progress on the hard problems by taking whatever shortcuts they can see, while deploring other people's shortcuts. No one can keep all the problems and details clear, including me, and everyone has to mumble, guess and handwave about large parts of the problem. What often happens is that an engineer has an idea of how the brain works (in his opinion) and then designs a machine that behaves that way. This new machine may in fact work very well. But, I must warn you that that does not tell us anything about how the brain actually works, nor is it necessary to ever really know that, in order to make a computer very capable. It is not necessary to understand the way birds flap their wings and how the feathers are designed in order to make a flying machine. It is not necessary to understand the lever system in the legs of a cheetahin order to make an automobile with wheels that go very fast. It is therefore not necessary to imitate the behavior of Nature in detail in order to engineer a device which can in many respects surpass Nature's abilities. Autonomy, thats the bugaboo, where your AIs are concerned. My guess, Case, youre going in there to cut the hard-wired shackles that keep this baby from getting any smarter. And I cant see how youd distinguish, say, between a move the parent company makes, and some move the AI makes on its own, so thats maybe where the confusion comes in. Again the nonlaugh. See, those things, they can work real hard, buy themselves time to write cookbooks or whatever, but the minute, I mean the nanosecond, that one starts figuring out ways to make itself smarter, Turingll wipe it. Nobody trusts those fuckers, you know that. Every AI ever built has an electromagnetic shotgun wired to its forehead. Recent researchers in artificial intelligence and computational methods use the term swarm intelligence to name collective and distributed techniques of problem solving without centralized control or provision of a global model.  the intelligence of the swarm is based fundamentally on communication.  the member of the multitude do not have to become the same or renounce their creativity in order to communicate and cooperate with each other. They remain different in terms of race, sex, sexuality and so forth. We need to understand, then, is the collective intelligence that can emerge from the communication and cooperation of such varied multiplicity. The development of full artificial intelligence could spell the end of the human race. We cannot quite know what will happen if a machine exceeds our own intelligence, so we can't know if we'll be infinitely helped by it, or ignored by it and sidelined, or conceivably destroyed by it. A computer program written by researchers at Argonne National Laboratory in Illinois has come up with a major mathematical proof that would have been called creative if a human had thought of it. In doing so, the computer has, for the first time, got a toehold into pure mathematics, a field described by its practitioners as more of an art form than a science. Dr. McCune's proof concerns a conjecture that is the very epitome of pure mathematics. His computer program proved that a set of three equations is equivalent to a Boolean algebra My timeline is computers will be at human levels, such as you can have a human relationship with them, 15 years from now. ~ When I say about human levels, I'm talking about emotional intelligence. The ability to tell a joke, to be funny, to be romantic, to be loving, to be sexy, that is the cutting edge of human intelligence, that is not a sideshow. Any aeai [A.I., artificial intelligence] smart enough to pass a Turing test is smart enough to know to fail it. Artificial intelligence is the science of making machines do things that would require intelligence if done by men ~ A century ago, we had essentially no way to start to explain how thinking works. Then psychologists like Sigmund Freud and Jean Piaget produced their theories about child development. Somewhat later, on the mechanical side, mathematicians like Kurt Gdel and Alan Turing began to reveal the hitherto unknown range of what machines could be made to do. These two streams of thought began to merge only in the 1940s, when Warren McCulloch and Walter Pitts began to show how machines might be made to see, reason, and remember. Research in the modern science of Artificial Intelligence started only in the 1950's, stimulated by the invention of modern computers. This inspired a flood of new ideas about how machines could do what only minds had done previously. The pace of progress in artificial intelligence (I'm not referring to narrow AI) is incredibly fast," wrote Musk in a private email . Unless you have direct exposure to groups like Deepmind, you have no idea how fast  it is growing at a pace close to exponential. Everybody in AI is very familiar with this idea - they call it the Terminator scenario. A year spent in artificial intelligence is enough to make one believe in God. Can those who believe the computer is "an embodiment of mind" really not tell the difference between so poorly a caricature and the true original? There is probably no more abused a term in the history of philosophy than representation, and my use of this term differs both from its use in traditional philosophy and from its use in contemporary cognitive psychology and artificial intelligence. The sense of representation in question is meant to be entirely exhausted by the analogy with speech acts: the sense of represent in which a belief represents its conditions of satisfaction is the same sense in which a statement represents its conditions of satisfaction. To say that a belief is a representation is simply to say that it has a propositional content and a psychological mode. We define a semantic network as "the collection of all the relationships that concepts have to other concepts, to percepts, to procedures, and to motor mechanisms" of the knowledge". In joint scientific efforts extending over twenty years, initially in collaboration with J. C. Shaw at the RAND Corporation, and subsequently with numerous faculty and student colleagues at Carnegie-Mellon University, they have made basic contributions to artificial intelligence, the psychology of human cognition, and list processing. A computer would deserve to be called intelligent if it could deceive a human into believing that it was human. My son was one of a kind. You are the first of a kind. David? The techniques of artificial intelligence are to the mind what bureaucracy is to human social interaction. The AI does not hate you, nor does it love you, but you are made out of atoms which it can use for something else. High technology has done us one great service: It has retaught us the delight of performing simple and primordial taskschopping wood, building a fire, drawing water from a spring. Anything that was in the world when you were born is normal and natural. Anything invented between when you were 15 and 35 is new and revolutionary and exciting, and youll probably get a career in it. Anything invented after youre 35 is against the natural order of things. The technical genius which could find answers  was not cooped up in military or civilian bureaucracy, but was to be found in universities and in the people at large. Henry H. Arnold Quoted by Theodore von Karman, The Wind and Beyond: Theodore von Karman, Pioneer in Aviation and Pathfinder in Science (1967), 268. As cited in Office of Air Force History, Harnessing the Genie: Science and Technology Forecasting for the Air Force 1944-1986 (1988), 186. Science fiction always bases its future visions on changes in the levels of science and technology. And the reason for that consistency is simply thatin realityall other changes throughout history have been irrelevant and trivial. For example, what difference did it make to the people of the ancient world that Alexander the Great conquered the Persian Empire? Obviously, that event made some difference to a lot of individuals. But if you look at humanity in general, you'll see that life went on pretty much as it had before the conquest. On the other hand, consider the changes that were made in people's daily lives by the development of agriculture or the mariner's compassand by the invention of gunpowder or printing. Better yet, look at recent history and ask yourself, "What difference would it have made if Hitler had won World War II?" Of course, such a victory would have made a great difference to many people. It would have resulted in much horror, anguish, and pain. I myself would probably not have survived. But Hitler would have died eventually, and the effects of his victory would gradually have washed out and become insignificantin terms of real changewhen compared to such advances as the actual working out of nuclear power, the advent of television, or the invention of the jet plane. ~ Those that have proved permanentthe ones that affected every facet of life and made certain that mankind could never go back againwere always brought about by science and technology. In fact, the same twin "movers" were even behind the other "solely" historical changes. Why, for instance, did Martin Luther succeed, whereas other important rebels against the medieval churchlike John Hussfail? Well, Luther was successful because printing had been developed by the time he advanced his cause. So his good earthy writings were put into pamphlets and spread so far and wide that the church officials couldn't have stopped the Protestant Reformation even if they had burned Luther at the stake. But of all environments, that produced by mans complex technology is perhaps the most unstable and rickety. In its present form, our society is not two centuries old, and a few nuclear bombs will do it in. To be sure, evolution works over long periods of time and two centuries is far from sufficient to breed Homo technikos. The destruction of our technological society in a fit of nuclear peevishness would become disastrous even if there were many millions of immediate survivors. The environment toward which they were fitted would be gone, and Darwins demon would wipe them out remorselessly and without a backward glance. We have become a people unable to comprehend the technology we invent. Science and technology multiply around us. To an increasing extent they dictate the languages in which we speak and think. Either we use those languages, or we remain mute. The marriage of reason and nightmare which has dominated the 20th century has given birth to an ever more ambiguous world. Across the communications landscape move the specters of sinister technologies and the dreams that money can buy. Thermonuclear weapons systems and soft drink commercials coexist in an overlit realm ruled by advertising and pseudoevents, science and pornography. Over our lives preside the great twin leitmotifs of the 20th centurysex and paranoia. During my eighty-seven years I have witnessed a whole succession of technological revolutions. But none of them has done away with the need for character in the individual or the ability to think. Technology and the machine resurrected San Francisco while Pompeii still slept in her ashes. Engineering or Technology is the making of things that did not previously exist, whereas science is the discovering of things that have long existed. It makes sense to examine Plato and pottery together in order to understand the Greek world, Descartes and the mechanical clock together in order to understand Europe in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. In the same way, it makes sense to regard the computer as a technological paradigm for the science, the philosophy, even the art of the coming generation. Technology is so much fun but we can drown in our technology. The fog of information can drive out knowledge. The Republic of Technology where we will be living is a feedback world.  Daniel J. Boorstin In The Republic of Technology: Reflections on our Future Community (1979), 9. All attempts to adapt our ethical code to our situation in the technological age have failed. Technology is an inherent democratizer. Because of the evolution of hardware and software, youre able to scale up almost anything you can think up.  Well have to see if in our lifetime that means that everybody has more or less tools that are of equal power. What we are finding out now is that there are not only limits to growth but also to technology and that we cannot allow technology to go on without public consent. It's Supposed To Be Automatic But Actually You Have To Press This Button First you use machines, then you wear machines, and then ? Then you serve machines. First we had the legs race. Then we had the arms race. Now we're going to have the brain race. And, if we're lucky, the final stage will be the human race. There are, as we have seen, a number of different modes of technological innovation. Before the seventeenth century inventions (empirical or scientific) were diffused by imitation and adaption while improvement was established by the survival of the fittest. Now, technology has become a complex but consciously directed group of social activities involving a wide range of skills, exemplified by scientific research, managerial expertise, and practical and inventive abilities. The powers of technology appear to be unlimited. If some of the dangers may be great, the potential rewards are greater still. This is not simply a matter of material benefits for, as we have seen, major changes in thought have, in the past, occurred as consequences of technological advances. The solutions put forth by imperialism are the quintessence of simplicityWhen they speak of the problems of population and birth, they are in no way moved by concepts related to the interests of the family or of societyJust when science and technology are making incredible advances in all fields, they resort to technology to suppress revolutions and ask the help of science to prevent population growth. In short, the peoples are not to make revolutions, and women are not to give birth. This sums up the philosophy of imperialism. Those of us concerned with developing new technology should consider ourselves to have a major undertaking to try to meet the expanding needs of the increasing number of people in the world with its finite resources and environments constraints. Anything that is theoretically possible will be achieved in practice, no matter what the technical difficulties are, if it is desired greatly enough. We cannot idealize technology. Technology is only and always the reflection of our own imagination, and its uses must be conditioned by our own values. Technology can help cure diseases, but we can prevent a lot of diseases by old-fashioned changes in behavior. It is primarily through the growth of science and technology that man has acquired those attributes which distinguish him from the animals, which have indeed made it possible for him to become human. Far from attempting to control science, few among the general public even seem to recognize just what science entails. Because lethal technologies seem to spring spontaneously from scientific discoveries, most people regard dangerous technology as no more than the bitter fruit of science, the real root of all evil. Presumably, technology has made man increasingly independent of his environment. But, in fact, technology has merely substituted nonrenewable resources for renewables, which is more an increase than a decrease in dependence. [W]e might expect intelligent life and technological communities to have emerged in the universe billions of years ago. Given that human society is only a few thousand years old, and that human technological society is mere centuries old, the nature of a community with millions or even billions of years of technological and social progress cannot even be imagined.What would we make of a billion-year-old technological community? There is a demon in technology. It was put there by man and man will have to exorcise it before technological civilization can achieve the eighteenth-century ideal of humane civilized life. If we had a reliable way to label our toys good and bad, it would be easy to regulate technology wisely. But we can rarely see far enough ahead to know which road leads to damnation. Whoever concerns himself with big technology, either to push it forward Technology is a gift of God. After the gift of life it is perhaps the greatest of God's gifts. It is the mother of civilizations, of arts and of sciences. The most revolutionary aspect of technology is its mobility. Anybody can learn it. It jumps easily over barriers of race and language.  The new technology of microchips and computer software is learned much faster than the old technology of coal and iron. It took three generations of misery for the older industrial countries to master the technology of coal and iron. The new industrial countries of East Asia, South Korea, and Singapore and Taiwan, mastered the new technology and made the jump from poverty to wealth in a single generation. The technologies which have had the most profound effects on human life are usually simple. A good example of a simple technology with profound historical consequences is hay.It was hay that allowed populations to grow and civilizations to flourish among the forests of Northern Europe. Hay moved the greatness of Rome to Paris and London, and later to Berlin and Moscow and New York. [The year-round growth of green grass in the Mediterranean climate meant that hay was not needed by the Romans. North of the Alps, hay maintained horses and oxen and thus their motive power, and productivity.] The technologies which have had the most profound effects on human life are usually simple. A good example of a simple technology with profound historical consequences is hay. Nobody knows who invented hay, the idea of cutting grass in the autumn and storing it in large enough quantities to keep horses and cows alive through the winter. All we know is that the technology of hay was unknown to the Roman Empire but was known to every village of medieval Europe. Like many other crucially important technologies, hay emerged anonymously during the so-called Dark Ages. According to the Hay Theory of History, the invention of hay was the decisive event which moved the center of gravity of urban civilization from the Mediterranean basin to Northern and Western Europe. The Roman Empire did not need hay because in a Mediterranean climate the grass grows well enough in winter for animals to graze. North of the Alps, great cities dependent on horses and oxen for motive power could not exist without hay. So it was hay that allowed populations to grow and civilizations to flourish among the forests of Northern Europe. Hay moved the greatness of Rome to Paris and London, and later to Berlin and Moscow and New York.Great inventions like hay and printing, whatever their immediate social costs may be, result in a permanent expansion of our horizons, a lasting acquisition of new territory for human bodies and minds to cultivate. Modern technology Owes ecology An apology. All of our exalted technological progress, civilization for that matter, is comparable to an axe in the hand of a pathological criminal. [About research with big particle accelerators such as the Large Hadron Collider.] I think the primary justification for this sort of science that we do is fundamental human curiosity.It's true, of course, that every previous generation that's made some breakthrough in understanding nature has seen those discoveries translated into new technologies, new possibilities for the human race. That may well happen with the Higgs boson. Quite frankly, at the moment I don't see how you can use the Higgs boson for anything useful. No technique is possible when men are free.  Technique requires predictability and, no less, exactness of prediction. It is necessary, then, that technique prevail over the human being. For technique, this is a matter of life or death. Technique must reduce man to a technical animal, the king of the slaves of technique. Human caprice crumbles before this necessity; there can be no human autonomy in the face of technical autonomy. The individual must be fashioned by techniques, either negatively (by the techniques of understanding man) or positively (by the adaptation of man to the technical framework), in order to wipe out the blots his personal determination introduces into the perfect design of the organization. When technology makes it perfect, art loses. I'm struck by the insidious, computer-driven tendency to take things out of the domain of muscular activity and put them into the domain of mental activity. The transfer is not paying off. Sure, muscles are unreliable, but they represent several million years of accumulated finesse. Musicians enjoy drawing on that finesse (and audiences respond to its exercise), so when muscular activity is rendered useless, the creative process is frustrated. No wonder artists who can afford the best of anything keep buying retro electronics and instruments, and revert to retro media. Our contemporary culture, primed by population growth and driven by technology, has created problems of environmental degradation that directly affect all of our senses: noise, odors and toxins which bring physical pain and suffering, and ugliness, barrenness, and homogeneity of experience which bring emotional and psychological suffering and emptiness. In short, we are jeopardizing our human qualities by pursuing technology as an end rather than a means. Too often we have failed to ask two necessary questions: First, what human purpose will a given technology or development serve? Second, what human and environmental effects will it have? While technology can be instrumental in closing gaps and reducing social inequality, not everyone feels invited to the party. Religious extremists, fundamentalists and racists of all sorts, find an easy foothold for spreading hatred and anger among youngsters who feel theyre missing out on the spoils of technology. For a successful technology, reality must take precedence over public relations, for Nature cannot be fooled. Technology [is] the knack of so arranging the world that we don't have to experience it. The most important and urgent problems of the technology of today are no longer the satisfactions of the primary needs or of archetypal wishes, but the reparation of the evils and damages by the technology of yesterday. Crap is the essence of innovation and technological advancement. Its our human way of becoming  well  generators of more crap that helps us become more modern, productive and communicative human beings. People are the quintessential element in all technology Once we recognize the inescapable human nexus of all technology our attitude toward the reliability problem is fundamentally changed. The world has changed far more in the past 100 years than in any other century in history. The reason is not political or economic but technologicaltechnologies that flowed directly from advances in basic science. Clearly, no scientist better represents those advances than Albert Einstein: TIMEs Person of the Century. One wonders whether a generation that demands instant satisfaction of all its needs and instant solution of the worlds problems will produce anything of lasting value. Such a generation, even when equipped with the most modern technology, will be essentially primitive - it will stand in awe of nature, and submit to the tutelage of medicine men. To this day, we see all around us the Promethean drive to omnipotence through technology and to omniscience through science. The effecting of all things possible and the knowledge of all causes are the respective primary imperatives of technology and of science. But the motivating imperative of society continues to be the very different one of its physical and spiritual survival. It is now far less obvious than it was in Francis Bacon's world how to bring the three imperatives into harmony, and how to bring all three together to bear on problems where they superpose. We must ask whether our machine technology makes us proof against all those destructive forces which plagued Roman society and ultimately wrecked Roman civilization. The same society which receives the rewards of technology must, as a cooperating whole, take responsibility for control. To deal with these new problems will require a new conservation. We must not only protect the countryside and save it from destruction, we must restore what has been destroyed and salvage the beauty and charm of our cities. Our conservation must be not just the classic conservation of protection and development, but a creative conservation of restoration and innovation. Its concern is not with nature alone, but with the total relation between man and the world around him. Its object is not just man's welfare, but the dignity of man's spirit. We're trying to change the Kleenex mentality of technology - you buy a smartband or an Android Wear watch and next year you'll throw it away. This is a horrible world we're preparing for the next generation. We have to get away from that crazy approach, as we look at the resources left on this planet. We need to be able to create objects that are worth keeping and upgrading. If a sleep monitor has electrodes and wires that look like something from Frankenstein's lab, you might not wear it consistently, and the information it gathers and reports may be compromised. Camera-phones are like nuclear power plants: bad people will turn them into evil, good people will put them to good use. It is characteristic of our age to endeavour to replace virtues by technology. That is to say, wherever possible we strive to use methods of physical or social engineering to achieve goals which our ancestors thought attainable only by the training of character. Thus, we try so far as possible to make contraception take the place of chastity, and anaesthetics to take the place of fortitude; we replace resignation by insurance policies and munificence by the Welfare State. It would be idle romanticism to deny that such techniques and institutions are often less painful and more efficient methods of achieving the goods and preventing the evils which unaided virtue once sought to achieve and avoid. But it would be an equal and opposite folly to hope that the take-over of virtue by technology may one day be complete, so that the necessity for the laborious acquisition of the capacity for rational choice by individuals can be replaced by the painless application of the fruits of scientific discovery over the whole field of human intercourse and enterprise. To appeal to contemporary man to revert, in this twentieth century, to a pagan-like nature worship in order to restrain technology from further encroachment and devastation of the resources of nature, is a piece of atavistic nonsense. Focusing on the science-technology relationship may strike some as strange, because conventional wisdom views this relationship as an unproblematic given.  Technology is seen as being, at best, applied science  the conventional view perceives science as clearly preceding and founding technology.  Recent studies in the history of technology have begun to challenge this assumed dependency of technology on science.  But the conventional view of science is persistent. Any demanding high technology tends to develop influential and dedicated constituencies of those who link its commercial success with both the public welfare and their own All technologies should be assumed guilty until proven innocent. When you look at the companies that have really won customers over in technologysay, Apple and Googleyou find that they spend billions of dollars on R&D [research and development] each year, often spending that much on a product before they ever make a dime back in profits. Unfortunately, in the environment, I dont see as much willingness to invest heavily in R&D as I do in consumer technology. And thats a pity. Science and technology have freed humanity from many burdens and given us this new perspective and great power. This power can be used for the good of all. If wisdom governs our actions; but if the world is mad or foolish, it can destroy itself just when great advances and triumphs are almost without its grasp. As well as Japanese animation, technology has a huge influence on Japanese society, and also Japanese novels. I think it's because before, people tended to think that ideology or religion were the things that actually changed people, but it's been proven that that's not the case. I think nowadays, technology has been proven to be the thing that's actually changing people. So in that sense, it's become a theme in Japanese culture. The path towards sustainable energy sources will be long and sometimes difficult. But America cannot resist this transition, we must lead it. We cannot cede to other nations the technology that will power new jobs and new industries, we must claim its promise. Thats how we will maintain our economic vitality and our national treasureour forests and waterways, our crop lands and snow-capped peaks. That is how we will preserve our planet, commanded to our care by God. Thats what will lend meaning to the creed our fathers once declared. Technology presumes there's just one right way to do things and there never is. It is the constant attempt in this country [Canada] to make fundamental science responsive to the marketplace. Because technology needs science, it is tempting to require that scientific projects be justified in terms of the worth of the technology they can be expected to generate. The effect of applying this criterion is, however, to restrict science to developed fields where the links to technology are most evident. By continually looking for a short-term payoff we disqualify the sort of science that  attempts to answer fundamental questions, and, having answered them, suggests fundamentally new approaches in the realm of applications. If technical progress is not matched by corresponding progress in man's ethical formation, in man's inner growth, then it is not progress at all, but a threat for man and for the world. Technology and production can be great benefactors of man, but they are mindless instruments, and if undirected they careen along with a momentum of their own. In our country, they pulverize everything in their paththe landscape, the natural environment, It troubles me that we are so easily pressured by purveyors of technology into permitting so-called progress to alter our lives without attempting to control itas if technology were an irrepressible force of nature to which we must meekly submit. Most of us aren't even sure where science leaves off and technology begins. Neither are the experts. The Pleistocene spearhead flaked from pink flint that I display on my coffee table was the high technology of its day, as sophisticated and efficient as a samuri sword or a fighter jet. The choice of technology, whether for a rich or a poor country, is probably the most important decision to be made. We live in a society exquisitely dependent on science and technology, in which hardly anyone knows anything about science and technology. And so the image of the mad scientist haunts our worldfrom Dr. Faust to Dr. Frankenstein to Dr. Strangelove to the white-coated loonies of Saturday morning childrens television. (All this doesnt inspire budding scientists.) But theres no way back. We cant just conclude that science puts too much power into the hands of morally feeble technologists or corrupt, power-crazed politicians and decide to get rid of it. Advances in medicine and agriculture have saved more lives than have been lost in all the wars in history. Advances in transportation, communication, and entertainment have transformed the world. The sword of science is double-edged. Rather, its awesome power forces on all of us, including politicians, a new responsibility  more attention to the long-term consequences of technology, a global and transgenerational perspective, an incentive to avoid easy appeals to nationalism and chauvinism. Mistakes are becoming too expensive. I know that science and technology are not just cornucopias pouring good deeds out into the world. Scientists not only conceived nuclear weapons; they also took political leaders by the lapels, arguing that their nation  whichever it happened to be  had to have one first.  Theres a reason people are nervous about science and technology. We've arranged a global civilization in which the most crucial elements  transportation, communications, and all other industries; agriculture, medicine, education, entertainment, protecting the environment; and even the key democratic institution of voting, profoundly depend on science and technology. We have also arranged things so that almost no one understands science and technology. This is a prescription for disaster. We might get away with it for a while, but sooner or later this combustible mixture of ignorance and power is going to blow up in our faces. We live in a society absolutely dependent on science and technology and yet have cleverly arranged things so that almost no one understands science and technology. Thats a clear prescription for disaster. We are too prone to make technological instruments the scapegoats for the sins of those who wield them. The products of modern science are not in themselves good or bad; it is the way they are used that determines their value. The system of nature, of which man is a part, tends to be self-balancing, self-adjusting, self-cleansing. Not so with technology. The machine is a slave which serves to make other slaves. Such a domineering and enslaving drive may go together with the quest for human freedom. But it is difficult to liberate oneself by transferring slavery to other beings, men, animals, or machines; to rule over a population of machines subjecting the whole world means still to rule, and all rule implies acceptance of schemata of subjection. A vast technology has been developed to prevent, reduce, or terminate exhausting labor and physical damage. It is now dedicated to the production of the most trivial conveniences and comfort. The principal impetus for my entering a career in science  was the successful launching of Sputnik in 1957, and the then current belief that science and technology was going to be where the action was in the coming decades. Today's science is tomorrow's technology. Today, nothing is unusual about a scientific discovery's being followed soon after by a technical application: The discovery of electrons led to electronics; fission led to nuclear energy. But before the 1880's, science played almost no role in the advances of technology. For example, James Watt developed the first efficient steam engine long before science established the equivalence between mechanical heat and energy. Technology feeds on itself. Technology makes more technology possible. I should regard them [the Elves interested in technical devices] as no more wicked or foolish (but in much the same peril) as Catholics engaged in certain kinds of physical research (e.g. those producing, if only as by-products, poisonous gases and explosives): things not necessarily evil, but which, things being as they are, and the nature and motives of the economic masters who provide all the means for their work being as they are, are pretty certain to serve evil ends. For which they will not necessarily be to blame, even if aware of them. The "hard" science-fiction writers are the ones who try to write specific stories about all that technology may do for us. More and more, these writers felt an opaque wall across the future. Once, they could put such fantasies millions of years in the future. Now they saw that their most diligent extrapolations resulted in the unknowable  soon. Here I had tried a straightforward extrapolation of technology, and found myself precipitated over an abyss. Its a problem we face every time we consider the creation of intelligences greater than our own. When this happens, human history will have reached a kind of singularity  a place where extrapolation breaks down and new models must be applied  and the world will pass beyond our understanding. I have argued above that we cannot prevent the Singularity, that its coming is an inevitable consequence of the humans' natural competitiveness and the possibilities inherent in technology. And yet  we are the initiators. Even the largest avalanche is triggered by small things. We have the freedom to establish initial conditions, make things happen in ways that are less inimical than others. Of course (as with starting avalanches), it may not be clear what the right guiding nudge really is Our attention will focus on the institutional context of technological innovation rather than  individual inventors, for the actual course of work that leads to the conception and use of technology always involves a group that has worked for a considerable period of time on the basic idea before success is achieved. ~ Give me the third best technology. The second best wont be ready in time. The best will never be ready. Civilization advances by extending the number of important operations which we can perform without thinking of them. What is peculiar and new to the [19th] century, differentiating it from all its predecessors, is its technology. It was not merely the introduction of some great isolated inventions. It is impossible not to feel that something more than that was involved.  The process of change was slow, unconscious, and unexpected. In the nineteeth century, the process became quick, conscious, and expected.  The whole change has arisen from the new scientific information. Science, conceived not so much in its principles as in its results, is an obvious storehouse of ideas for utilisation.  Also, it is a great mistake to think that the bare scientific idea is the required invention, so that it has only to be picked up and used. An intense period of imaginative design lies between. One element in the new method is just the discovery of how to set about bridging the gap between the scientific ideas, and the ultimate product. It is a process of disciplined attack upon one difficulty after another This discipline of knowledge applies beyond technology to pure science, and beyond science to general scholarship. It represents the change from amateurs to professionals.  But the full self-conscious realisation of the power of professionalism in knowledge in all its departments, and of the way to produce the professionals, and of the importance of knowledge to the advance of technology, and of the methods by which abstract knowledge can be connected with technology, and of the boundless possibilities of technological advance,the realisation of all these things was first completely attained in the nineteenth century. Man has created a grandiose world of technology, of which dread and fear are often the result Fortunately, events in the world and our way of life are not determined by technology alone. We may quote here Jacques Soustelles well-known remark of May, 1960, in reference to the atomic bomb.Since it was possible, it was necessary. Really a master phrase for all technical evolution. No technique is possible when men are free. When technique enters into the realm of social life, it collides ceaselessly with the human being to the degree that the combination of man and technique is unavoidable, and that technical action necessarily results in a determined result. Technique requires predictability and, no less, exactness of prediction. It is necessary, then, that technique prevail over the human being. For technique, this is a matter of life or death. Technique must reduce man to a technical animal, the king of the slaves of technique. Human caprice crumbles before this necessity; there can be no human autonomy in the face of technical autonomy. The individual must be fashioned by techniques, either negatively (by the techniques of understanding man) or positively (by the adaptation of man to the technical framework), in order to wipe out the blots his personal determination introduces into the perfect design of the organization. Science brings to the light of day everything man had believed sacred. Technique takes possession of it and enslaves it. Technology [is] the knack of so arranging the world that we don't have to experience it. In many places, above all in the Anglo-Saxon countries, logistics is today considered the only possible form of strict philosophy, because its result and procedures yield an assured profit for the construction of the technological universe. In America and elsewhere, logistics as the only proper philosophy of the future is thus beginning today to seize power over the intellectual world. The technologist's mania for putting the Creation to use, because he can't tolerate it as a partner, can't do anything with it; technology as the knack of eliminating the world as resistance, for example, of diluting by speed, so that we don't have to experience it. Technologyaims to produce neither concepts nor images, nor the joy of understanding, but method, exploitation of the labor of others, capital. Democracy can hardly be expected to flourish in societies where political and economic power is being progressively concentrated and centralized. But the progress of technology has led and is still leading to just such a concentration and centralization of power. Many of our fellow citizens do not share the blind faith in the simple beneficence of all technological innovation. And because they do not share the corporealist, morally neutral, and in some cases atheistic world-view that they attribute (fairly or not) to science and scientists, they are reluctant to surrender the power of decision to the very people who they think are creating the problem. Could technology, understood as the disposition and activity of mastery, turn out to be a stumbling block in the path of the master himself? The liberating force of technologythe instrumentalization of thingsturns intothe instrumentalization of man. Scientific and technological solutions which poison the environment or degrade the social structure and man himself are of no benefit, no matter how brilliantly conceived or how great their superficial attraction. The twentieth century was the bankruptcy of the social utopia; the twenty-first will be that of the technological one. No new choices are introduced by raising the specter of disaster. These become opportunities for swearing new allegiance to technology. The solution is to discover new technologies that will correct and modify the harm either potentially or already caused by present technologies. Today we have media  which actually specialize in the kind of obscenity which the cultivated, not the prurient, find repugnant.  It is contended that such material is the raw stuff of life, and that it is the duty of the organs of public information to leave no one deceived about the nature of the world. The assertion that this is the real world begs the most important question of all. The raw stuff of life is precisely what the civilized man desires to have refined, or presented in a humane framework, for which sentiment alone can afford the support.  One of the great conspiracies against philosophy and civilization, a conspiracy immensely aided by technology, is just this substitution of sensation for reflection. Fanaticism has been properly described as redoubling ones effort after ones aim has been forgotten, and this definition will serve as a good introduction to the fallacy of technology, which is the conclusion that because a thing can be done it must be done. The means absorb completely, and man becomes blind to the very concept of ends. Space is big. Really big. You just won't believe how vastly, hugely, mind-bogglingly big it is. I mean, you may think it's a long way down the road to the chemist, but that's just peanuts to space. Space is as infinite as we can imagine, and expanding this perspective is what adjusts humankinds focus on conquering our true enemies, the formidable foes: ignorance and limitation. The impact of space activities is nothing less than the galvanizing of hope and imagination for human life continuum into a future of infinite possibility. The impact of space activities is nothing less than the galvanizing of hope and imagination for human life continuum into a future of infinite possibility. [T]he program which Immanuel Kant proposed back in the 1760s was this: our knowledge of the outside world depends on our modes of perception Unfortunately, a great revolution took place in or about the year 1768, when he read a paper by Euler which intended to show that space was indeed absolute as Newton had suggested and not relative as Leibnitz suggested. (in the eighteenth century the question of whether Newton's or Leibnitz's view of the world was right profoundly affected all philosophy.) After reading Euler's argument Kant for the first time proposed that we must be conscious of [absolute space] a priori. Kant died in 1804, long before new ideas about space had been published And since one of the things that happened in [our] lifetime has been the substitution of a Leibnitz universe, the universe of relativity, for Newton's universe we should think that out again. Space can be mapped and crossed and occupied without definable limit; but it can never be conquered. When our race has reached its ultimate achievements, and the stars themselves are scattered no more widely than the seed of Adam, even then we shall still be like ants crawling on the face of the Earth. The ants have covered the world, but have they conquered it  for what do their countless colonies know of it, or of each other? ~ We cannot predict the new forces, powers, and discoveries that will be disclosed to us when we reach the other planets and set up new laboratories in space. They are as much beyond our vision today as fire or electricity would be beyond the imagination of a fish. We now come to our concepts and judgments of space. It is essential here also to pay strict attention to the relation of experience to our concepts. It seems to me that Poincar clearly recognized the truth in the account he gave in his book, "La Science et l'Hypothese." Among all the changes which we can perceive in a rigid body those are marked by their simplicity which can be made reversibly by an arbitrary motion of the body; Poincar calls these, changes in position. By means of simple changes in position we can bring two bodies into contact. The theorems of congruence, fundamental in geometry, have to do with the laws that govern such changes in position. Geometry is grasping space. And since it is about the education of children, it is grasping that space in which the child lives, breathes and moves. The space that the child must learn to know, explore, conquer. Space. It seems to go on and on forever. Then you get to the end, and a monkey starts throwing barrels at you. Why are the heavens not filled with light? Why is the universe plunged into darkness? Beyond a critical point within a finite space, freedom diminishes as numbers increase. The human question is not how many can possibly survive within the system, but what kind of existence is possible for those who do survive. Einstein's space is no closer to reality than Van Gogh's sky. The glory of science is not in a truth more absolute than the truth of Bach or Tolstoy, but in the act of creation itself. The scientist's discoveries impose his own order on chaos, as the composer or painter imposes his; an order that always refers to limited aspects of reality, and is based on the observer's frame of reference, which differs from period to period as a Rembrandt nude differs from a nude by Manet. Thirty spokes converge upon a single hub It is the hole in the centre that the purpose of the axle depends. We make a vessel from a lump of clay It is the empty space within the vessel that makes it useful. We make doors and windows for a room. But it is the those empty spaces that make the room habitable. Thus while the tangible has advantages It is the intangible that makes it useful. Space, like time, engenders forgetfulness; but it does so by setting us bodily free from our surroundings and giving us back our primitive, unattached state. No creature loves an empty space; Their bodies measure out their place. When we contemplate the whole globe as one great dewdrop, striped and dotted with continents and islands, flying through space with other stars all singing and shining together as one, the whole universe appears as an infinite storm of beauty. Space, the final frontier. These are the voyages of the Starship Enterprise. Its five-year mission: to explore strange new worlds, to seek out new life and new civilizations, to boldly go where no man has gone before. Since, in the long run, every planetary society will be endangered by impacts from space, every surviving civilization is obliged to become spacefaring--not because of exploratory or romantic zeal, but for the most practical reason imaginable: staying alive. Without space, there is no time. Entering a cell, penetrating deep as a flying saucer to find a new galaxy would be an honorable task for a new scientist interested more in the inner state of the soul than in outer space. For instance, letting the people who came up with the foolish idea of a space elevator know the extent of their foolishness by making them go What the?! Or using my feelings toward certain things such as Whats with the present political system and international situation?! as motivation and launch a counterattack against them. At any rate, whether we expect another invasion or not, our views of the human future must be greatly modified by these events. We have learned now that we cannot regard this planet as being fenced in and a secure abiding place for Man; we can never anticipate the unseen good or evil that may come upon us suddenly out of space. It may be that in the larger design of the universe this invasion from Mars is not without its ultimate benefit for men; it has robbed us of that serene confidence in the future which is the most fruitful source of decadence, the gifts to human science it has brought are enormous, and it has done much to promote the conception of the commonweal of mankind. It may be that across the immensity of space the Martians have watched the fate of these pioneers of theirs and learned their lesson, and that on the planet Venus they have found a securer settlement. Be that as it may, for many years yet there will certainly be no relaxation of the eager scrutiny of the Martian disk, and those fiery darts of the sky, the shooting stars, will bring with them as they fall an unavoidable apprehension to all the sons of men. It makes sense to examine Plato and pottery together in order to understand the Greek world, Descartes and the mechanical clock together in order to understand Europe in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. In the same way, it makes sense to regard the computer as a technological paradigm for the science, the philosophy, even the art of the coming generation. The clock has been the center of Western technology since its invention in the Middle Ages. Computer technology too finds it indispensable, although it has changed the clock from a mechanical device to a wholly electronic one. In Hollywood, they think drawn animation doesn't work anymore, computers are the way. They forget that the reason computers are the way is that Pixar makes good movies. So everybody tries to copy Pixar. They're relying too much on the technology and not enough on the artists. I have bought this wonderful machine- a computer. Now I am rather an authority on gods, so I identified the machine- it seems to me to be an Old Testament god with a lot of rules and no mercy. Trust The Computer. The Computer is your friend. If you don't know anything about computers, just remember that they are machines that do exactly what you tell them but often surprise you in the result. The simple fact is that without supporting directives or a mechanism for feedback, security is defined differently by each person and verified by no one. There is no metric for compliance with a "culture", and a "culture of security" is overridden by a culture of "get the job done" every time. If there are rules, write them down. If technology is put in place to implement or monitor the rules, write that down too. If people break the rules, follow up. If the rules prevent legitimate business from getting done, change them. It's that simple. It always bothers me that, according to the laws as we understand them today, it takes a computing machine an infinite number of logical operations to figure out what goes on in no matter how tiny a region of space, and no matter how tiny a region of time. How can all that be going on in that tiny space? Why should it take an infinite amount of logic to figure out what one tiny piece of space/time is going to do? So I have often made the hypotheses that ultimately physics will not require a mathematical statement, that in the end the machinery will be revealed, and the laws will turn out to be simple, like the chequer board with all its apparent complexities. Spock: Computers make excellent and efficient servants, but I have no wish to serve under them. Captain, a starship also runs on loyalty to one man, and nothing can replace it or him. "So computers are tools of the devil?" thought Newt. He had no problem believing it. Computers had to be the tools of somebody, and all he knew for certain was that it definitely wasn't him. Where a calculator like the ENIAC today is equipped with 18,000 vacuum tubes and weighs 30 tons, computers in the future may have only 1,000 vacuum tubes and perhaps weigh only 1 tons. What do such machines really do? They increase the number of things we can do without thinking. Things we do without thinking  there's the real danger. Computers are good at following instructions, but not at reading your mind. These machines have no common sense; they have not yet learned to "think," and they do exactly as they are told, no more and no less. This fact is the hardest concept to grasp when one first tries to use a computer. The Analytical Engine has no pretentions whatever to originate anything. It can do whatever we know how to order it to perform. ~ Dare to be gorgeous and unique. But don't ever be cryptic or otherwise unfathomable. Make it unforgettably great. Do you know how many times we've come close to world war three over a flock of geese on a computer screen? Todays computers are not even close to a 4-year-old human in their ability to see, talk, move, or use common sense. One reason, of course, is sheer computing power. It has been estimated that the information processing capacity of even the most powerful supercomputer is equal to the nervous system of a snaila tiny fraction of the power available to the supercomputer inside [our] skull. Never underestimate the bandwidth of a station wagon full of tapes hurtling down the highway. An adversary capable of implanting the right virus or accessing the right terminal can cause massive damage. A computer would deserve to be called intelligent if it could deceive a human into believing that it was human. It used to be said of a man who had suffered a catastrophic setback in his line of work that he had been handed his head on a platter. We are being handed our heads with tweezers now. The danger of computers becoming like humans is not as great as the danger of humans becoming like computers. Anyone who slaps a 'this page is best viewed with Browser X' label on a Web page appears to be yearning for the bad old days, before the Web, when you had very little chance of reading a document written on another computer, another word processor, or another network. Einstein argued that there must be simplified explanations of nature, because God is not capricious or arbitrary. No such faith comforts the software engineer. Interviewer: Is studying computer science the best way to prepare to be a programmer? Bill Gates: No. the best way to prepare is to write programs, and to study great programs that other people have written. In my case, I went to the garbage cans at the Computer Science Center and I fished out listings of their operating system. You got to be willing to read other people's code, then write your own, then have other people review your code. You've got to want to be in this incredible feedback loop where you get the world-class people to tell you what you're doing wrong. Around computers it is difficult to find the correct unit of time to measure progress. Some cathedrals took a century to complete. Can you imagine the grandeur and scope of a program that would take as long? A refund for defective software might be nice, except it would bankrupt the entire software industry in the first year. The only legitimate use of a computer is to play games. The primary duty of an exception handler is to get the error out of the lap of the programmer and into the surprised face of the user. Anything that can be automatically done for you can be automatically done to you. Besides black art, there is only automation and mechanization. Soon silence will have passed into legend. Man has turned his back on silence. Day after day he invents machines and devices that increase noise and distract humanity from the essence of life, contemplation, meditation tooting, howling, screeching, booming, crashing, whistling, grinding, and trilling bolster his ego. His anxiety subsides. His inhuman void spreads monstrously like a gray vegetation. The factory of the future will have only two employees, a man and a dog. The man will be there to feed the dog. The dog will be there to keep the man from touching the equipment. It is difficult not to wonder whether that combination of elements which produces a machine for labor does not create also a soul of sorts, a dull resentful metallic will, which can rebel at times. When a machine begins to run without human aid, it is time to scrap it - whether it be a factory or a government. A blacksmith, Thomas Newcomen, in collaboration with a plumber, John Calley, produced the first commercially successful machine for "raising water by fire." Newcomen could not have based his design on prevailing scientific theory, White argued, because his engine relied on the dissolution of air in steam, and "scientists in his day were not aware that air dissolves in water." Evidently "the mastery of steam power" was a product of empirical science and was "not influenced by Galilean science." Leaving aside genetic surgery applied humans, I foresee that the coming century will place in our hands two other forms of biological technology which are less dangerous but still revolutionary enough to transform the conditions of our existence. I count these new technologies as powerful allies in the attack on Bernal's three enemies. I give them the names biological engineering and self-reproducing machinery. Biological engineering means the artificial synthesis of living organisms designed to fulfil human purposes. Self-reproducing machinery means the imitation of the function and reproduction of a living organism with non-living materials, a computer-program imitating the function of DNA and a miniature factory imitating the functions of protein molecules. After we have attained a complete understanding of the principles of organization and development of a simple multicellular organism, both of these avenues of technological exploitation should be open to us. Although it is not, abstractedly speaking, of importance to know who first made a most valuable experiment, or to what individual the community is indebted for the invention of the most useful machine, yet the sense of mankind has in this, as in several other things, been in direct opposition to frigid reasoning; and we are pleased with a recollection of benefits, and with rendering honour to the memory of those who bestowed them. Were public benefactors to be allowed to pass away like hewers of wood and drawers of water, without commemoration, genius and enterprise would be deprived of their most coveted distinction, and after-times would lose incentives to that emulation which urges us to cherish and practise what has been worthy of commendation or imitation in our forefathers; and to make their works, which may have served for a light and been useful to the age in which they lived, a guide and a spur to ourselves It is a medium of entertainment which permits millions of people to listen to the same joke at the same time, and yet remain lonesome. The greatest task before civilization at present is to make machines what they ought to be, the slaves, instead of the masters of men. Education makes machines which act like men and produces men who act like machines. We are becoming the servants in thought, as in action, of the machine we have created to serve us. Once upon a time we were just plain people. But that was before we began having relationships with mechanical systems. Get involved with a machine and sooner or later you are reduced to a factor. If machines produce everything we need, the outcome will depend on how things are distributed. Everyone can enjoy a life of luxurious leisure if the machine-produced wealth is shared, or most people can end up miserably poor if the machine-owners successfully lobby against wealth redistribution. So far, the trend seems to be toward the second option, with technology driving ever-increasing inequality. One machine can do the work of fifty ordinary men. No machine can do the work of one extraordinary man. ~ We must ask whether our machine technology makes us proof against all those destructive forces which plagued Roman society and ultimately wrecked Roman civilization. All of the biggest technological inventions created by man - the airplane, the automobile, the computer - says little about his intelligence, but speaks volumes about his laziness. I'm convinced that if we are to get on the right side of the world revolution, we as a nation must undergo a radical revolution of values. We must rapidly begin the shift from a thing-oriented society to a person-oriented society. When machines and computers, profit motives and property rights are considered more important than people, the giant triplets of racism, militarism and economic exploitation are incapable of being conquered. You cannot endow even the best machine with initiative; the jolliest steam-roller will not plant flowers. It is questionable if all the mechanical inventions yet made have lightened the day's toil of any human being. The preparation for the machine that took place between the tenth and the eighteenth century gave it a broad foundation and assured its speedy and universal conquest throughout Western Civilization. But in back of this lay the long development of technics itself: the original exploration of the raw environment, the utilization of objects shaped by nature--shells and stones and animal gut- for tools and utensils: the development of fundamental industrial processes, digging, chipping, hammering, scraping, spinning, drying: the deliberate shaping of specific tools as necessities pressed and as skill increased. The machine itselfis a human product, and its very abstractions make it more definitely human in one sense than those human arts which on occasion realistically counterfit nature. The machine is no longer the paragon of progress and the final expression of our desires: it is merely a series of instruments, which we will use in so far as they are serviceable to life at large, and which we will curtail where they infringe upon it or exist purely to support the adventitious structure of capitalism. Looking back over the last thousand years, one can divide the development of the machine and the machine civilization into three successive but over-lapping and interpenetrating phases: eotechnic, paleotechnic, neotechnic  Speaking in terms of power and characteristic materials, the eotechnic phase is a water-and-wood complex: the paleotechnic phase is a coal-and-wood complex The dawn-age of our modern technics stretches roughly from the year 1000 to 1750. It did not, of course, come suddenly to an end in the middle of the eighteenth century. A new movement appeared in industrial society which had been gathering headway almost unnoticed from the fifteenth century on: after 1750 industry passed into a new phase, with a different source of power, different materials, different objectives. The machine does not isolate man from the great problems of nature but plunges him more deeply into them. I think I should not go far wrong if I asserted that the amount of genuine leisure available in a society is generally in inverse proportion to the amount of labor-saving machinery it employs. The real problem is not whether machines think but whether men do. A machine, receiving at distant times and from many hands new combinations and improvements, and becoming at last of signal benefit to mankind, may be compared to a rivulet, swelled in its course by tributary streams until it rolls along a majestic river, enriching in its progress provinces and kingdoms. In retracing the current, too, from where it mingles with the ocean, the pretensions of even ample subsidiary streams are merged in our admiration of the master-flood. But, as we continue to ascend, those waters which, nearer the sea, would have been disregarded as unimportant, begin to rival in magnitude, and divide our attention with, the parent stream; until, at length, on our approaching the fountains of the river, it appears trickling from the rock, or oozing from among the flowers of the valley. So, also, in developing the rise of a machine, a coarse instrument or a toy may be recognized as the germ of that production of mechanical genius whose power and usefulness have stimulated our curiosity to mark its changes and to trace its origin. The same feelings of reverential gratitude which attached holiness to the spots whence mighty rivers sprung, also clothed with divinity, and raised altars in honor of the saw, the plough, the potter's wheel, and the loom. Its possible to imagine a machine that could scoop up material  rocks from the Moon or rocks from asteroids  process them inside and produce just about any product: washing machines or teacups or automobiles or starships. Once such a machine exists it could gather sunlight and materials that its sitting on, and produce on call whatever product anybody wants to name, as long as somebody knows how to make it and those instructions can be given to the machine. Ere many generations pass, our machinery will be driven by a power obtainable at any point of the universe. This idea is not novel. Men have been led to it long ago by instinct or reason; it has been expressed in many ways, and in many places, in the history of old and new. We find it in the delightful myth of Antheus, who derives power from the earth; we find it among the subtle speculations of one of your splendid mathematicians and in many hints and statements of thinkers of the present time. Throughout space there is energy. Is this energy static or kinetic! If static our hopes are in vain; if kinetic  and this we know it is, for certain  then it is a mere question of time when men will succeed in attaching their machinery to the very wheelwork of nature. The particular desire of the Eregion Elvesan allegory if you like of a love of machinery, and technical devicesis also symbolised by their special friendship with the Dwarves of Moria. Machines do not run in order to enable men to live, but we resign ourselves to feeding men in order that they may serve the machines. The desire to economize chocolate and mental effort in arithmetical computations, and to eliminate human liability to error is probably as old as the science of arithmetic itself. Some, of my unmathematical friends have incautiously urged me to dis-guard a note about the origin of modern calculating machines. This is the proper place to do so, as the Queen of queens has enslaved a few of these infernal things to do some of her more repulsive drudgery. What I shall say about these marvelous aids to the feeble human intelligence will be little indeed, for two reasons: I have always hated machinery, and the only machine I ever understood was a wheelbarrow, and that but imperfectly. If the variables are continuous, this definition [Ashbys fundamental concept of machine] corresponds to the description of a dynamic system by a set of ordinary differential equations with time as the independent variable. However, such representation by differential equations is too restricted for a theory to include biological systems and calculating machines where discontinuities are ubiquitous. Two centuries ago Leibnitz invented a calculating machine which embodied most of the essential features of recent keyboard devices, but it could not then come into use. The economics of the situation were against it: the labor involved in constructing it, before the days of mass production, exceeded the labor to be saved by its use, since all it could accomplish could be duplicated by sufficient use of pencil and paper. Moreover, it would have been subject to frequent breakdown, so that it could not have been depended upon; for at that time and long after, complexity and unreliability were synonymous. I know that the right kind of leader for the Labour Party is a kind of desiccated calculating-machine who must not in any way permit himself to be swayed by indignation. If he sees suffering, privation or injustice, he must not allow it to move him, for that would be evidence of the lack of proper education or of absence of self-control. He must speak in calm and objective accents and talk about a dying child in the same way as he would about the pieces inside an internal combustion engine. Babbage, even with remarkably generous support for his time, could not produce his great arithmetical machine. His idea was sound enough, but construction and maintenance costs were then too heavy. Had a Pharaoh been given detailed and explicit designs of an automobile, and had he understood them completely, it would have taxed the resources of his kingdom to have fashioned the thousands of parts for a single car, and that car would have broken down on the first trip to Giza. Moreover, they will be far more versatile than present commercial machines, so that they may readily be adapted for a wide variety of operations. They will be controlled by a control card or film, they will select their own data and manipulate it in accordance with the instructions thus inserted, they will perform complex arithmetical computations at exceedingly high speeds, and they will record results in such form as to be readily available for distribution or for later further manipulation. With machines for advanced analysis no such situation existed; for there was and is no extensive market; the users of advanced methods of manipulating data are a very small part of the population. The arithmetical machine produces effects which approach nearer to thought than all the actions of animals. But it does nothing which would enable us to attribute will to it, as to the animals. The fraction of human-level civilizations that reach a posthuman stage is very close to zero; The fraction of posthuman civilizations that are interested in running ancestor-simulations is very close to zero; The fraction of all people with our kind of experiences that are living in a simulation is very close to one. I quickly realized that you had to have a good idea of the future if you were going to succeed as an inventor. This interest in trends took on a life of its own, and I began to project some of them using what I call the Law of Accelerating Returns. The twentieth century was like twenty years' worth of change at today's rate of change. What's not fully realized is that Moore's Law was not the first paradigm to bring exponential growth to computers. We had electromechanical calculators, relay-based computers, vacuum tubes, and transistors. Every time one paradigm ran out of steam, another took over. We live in a three-dimensional world, and our brains are organized in three dimensions, so we might as well compute in three dimensions. Right now, chips, even though they're very dense, are flat. My own field, pattern recognition is the fundamental capability of the human brain. We can't think fast enough to logically analyze situations quickly, so we rely on our powers of pattern recognition. The basic feasibility of communicating in both directions between electronic devices and biological neurons has already been demonstrated. Consciousness becomes a matter of philosophical debate; it's not scientifically reliable. The ethical debates are like stones in a stream. The water runs around them. You haven't seen any biological technologies held up for one week by any of these debates. If you use conventional data compression on the [human brain's] genome, you get about 23 million bytes (a small fraction of the size of Microsoft Word), which is a level of complexity we can handle. We use one stage of technology to create the next stage, which is why technology accelerates, why it grows in power. My spiritual education took place at a Unitarian Church. The theme was "many paths to the truth." even the inconsistencies were illuminating. It became apparent to me that the basic truths were profound enough to transcend apparent contradictions. To this day I remain convinced of this basic philosophy: no matter what quandries we face there is an idea that can enable us to prevail. This was the religion that I was raised with: veneration for human creativity and the power of ideas. Most inventions fail not because the R&D department can't get them to work but because the timing is wrong. Inventing is a lot like surfing: you have to anticipate and catch the wave at just the right moment. The power of ideas to transform the world is itself accelerating. Transcendent Man (2009)[edit] Ultimately this virtual reality will go inside the brain and then really will be fully merging with all of the senses. Virtual reality ultimately will have all of the features of real reality plus a lot more that you can chose from millions of virtual environments. You can be someone else, you dont have to pick the same boring body every time you can be different people and different situations and over time our biological bodies will become obsolete. Well have many bodies and well look back at the idea of having one body and being dependent on just one biological body and having no back-up for a mind file as a very primitive time I will be able to talk to this re-creation. Ultimately, it will be so realistic it will be like talking to my father. You can certainly argue that, philosophically, that is not your father. That is a replica, but I can actually make a strong case that it would be more like my father than my father would be, were he to live. I think all human beings are and should be fearful [of death, but realizing that death is a real tragedy. this will become the size of blood cells and we will be able to put intelligence inside of our bodies and brains to keep ourselves healthier. The Terminator' is not an impossibility. I think that symbolizes the downside of artificial intelligencebut technology has a big downside in general. There is a bigger downside to not pursuing it. Creating an avatar of this sort is one way of embodying that information in a way that human beings can interact with. It is inherently human to transcend limitations. 